What is meaning of Swadeshi according to Gandhiji ?
 Why was All India Cottage Industry Board set up ? 
 State four reasons for the pitiable condition of the craft persons in India Name any two banned craft items in India.
 Give three suggestions to improve the pitiable condition of craft persons.
 Name any three Indian names given to Handicrafts How can craft and tourism be promoted together ? 
 How did the initiatives of Mrs. Kamla Devi Chattopadhyay help in promoting crafts after Indias independence ? 
 How was the craft industry in India affected during the colonial period ? 
 Mention the advantages of organizing a craft bazaar for the craft community.
 What are the different functionaries that work for the promotion of handicrafts industry in India at National, State or Local level ?
 With the use of factory made products we have lost some aspects of our cultural identity or the identity of a particular community.
 Discuss by giving examples, how the adaptation of craft to new surfaces has led to creativity of a new kind.
 What are the advantages and disadvantages of marketing crafts through a craft bazaar ?
 Role of women is very important in crafts of India  ,Justify this by giving examples. 
 After Indias independence, what were the significant steps taken by the government to promote the craft sector.
 Describe the idea of self-sufficient village.
 Prepare a detailed questionnaire that you can use during your visit to the crafts persons in your community.
 Prepare a brochure on a craft .
 Compare a heritage building with a modern building on the basis of following points .
 Prepare a wall magazine for your school which will showcase different crafts.
 What is Mass Culture ?
 Define Traditional Culture.
 Write name of any two Indian News agencies. 
 Define video grabbing card.
 What are folk tales ?
 Mention two qualities of television advertisement.
 Define News. 
 Write full form of I.C.E. 
 Explain Propaganda Theory.
 Write a note on Two-Step flow theory.
 Write a short note on Vividh Bharati.
 What is Media convergence ? 
 What are the benefits of social networking sites ?
 Explain any three genres of Soap Opera.
 What are the parameters of Non-fiction film analysis ?
 Differentiate between Multicast and Unicast transmission.
 What are the parameters of Non-fiction film analysis ?
  Mention the advantages of assimilation of film in television.
  Differentiate between Qualitative and Quantitative surveys.
  State the advantages and disadvantages of advertising in Newspapers.
  Explain the process of assimilation of the media.
  What is Market Segmentation ?  
  Explain the various characteristics of it. 
  How real is reality television ?
  Explain the following terms in detail: Institutional Advertising, point of purchase advertising and advocacy advertising. 
  Write a note on contribution of Internet in the age of information. 
  Identify the post for which she has been appointed.
  Law of Mosses relates to which of the following ? 
  Directive Principles of State Policy are provided under which part and under which articles of the Indian Constitution ?  
  Under which article of Indian Constitution Madhur has the right to establish an educational institution ? 
  What is the purpose of Criminal Law in India ?
  Give any four Human Rights provided under Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR). 
  State any four powers of National Human Rights Commission which are similar to that of Civil Courts.
  Identify and explain this provision of source of International Law. 
  State the purpose of Article 39A which was inserted by the 42nd Amendment Act, 1976 of the Constitution of India. 
  Give any one value instilled in the justice system by this addition.
  How can a State express its consent to bind itself by a particular treaty ? 
Giving brief introduction about National Judicial Academy,explain:(i)Its role in providing judicial training,(ii)Its methodology adopted for training judges.
What are Lok Adalats ? 
State its salient features.
Explain any four functions of National Human Rights Commission (NHRC).
List the changes introduced in the legal profession and education by The Advocates Act, 1961 with special reference to :(i)Categories of legal practitioners , (ii) Establishment of the bodies at National and State level to regulate the legal profession and education.
What is Doctrine of Separation of Powers ? 
Give three aspects of this doctrine by Montesquieu.
The case of Keshwananda Bharthi v. State of Kerala was an answer to the 24th Amendment Act. ,Explain.
Which agency exercises jurisdiction of service matters of Central Government employees. 
Explain the significance of such agency in supplementing the role of courts in adjudication of service disputes. 
Can appeal be made against the order of such agency ? 
If yes, where ? 
Is the procedure followed for Rohits conviction justified ? 
Give reason to your answer by referring Article 21 and 22 of the Indian Constitution .
State any two values communicated by Vishwas to the society when he expresses his desire to be empanelled: 
What qualifications are required to become a High Court Judge in India ? 
How are High Court Judges appointed in India ? 
What is an offer ? 
What is the impact of an acceptance to an offer ? 
Explain the concept of general offer as given by the Court in Carbolic Smoke Ball Case. 
Will the action of Mrs. Suchika stay ? 
Give reasons for your answer.  
What is meant by Alternate Dispute Resolution (ADR) system ? 
State any four benefits of opting ADR over the conventional judicial procedure.  
Explain the role of following enactments in the history of Legal Profession in India:(a)The Legal Practitioners Act of 1846,(b) Indian Bar Councils Act, 1926. 
Enumerate any six categories of persons who can avail free legal services as per the provisions of the Legal Services Authorities Act of 1987 ? 
State any six functions performed by the Central Authority constituted under the Legal Aid Services Authority. 
When and why the post of UN High Commissioner for Human Rights was created ? 
Explain the role  played by International Criminal Court to protect human rights in international context.
What is meant by virtue ?  
What, according to Divine Command Theory, makes an action valuable ?   
Define Samanyadharma.
Describe ka ma as a purusha rtha.Define Rule Utilitarianism. 
Describe Jaina maha vrata of asteya. 
Describe Bhagvadgita's doctrine of loksamgraha. 
Define Rta as karma. 
What is meant by Buddhist doctrine of Brahmavihara ?
What does Buddha mean by panchshila ?
Define Tolerance.
What according to Descartes is the defining feature of body ?
Define Problem of Evil.
What is meant by Gender Equality?
Explain cosmological argument for the existence of God.
Explain Cartesian theory of the relationship between mind and body.
Explain the conditions in which the sa dha rnadharmas can be abandoned.
Explain the distinction between sex and gender.
Explain right to property as a basic human right.
Differentiate between deontological and consequentialist ethics.
Explain Jaina doctrine of syadvada.
Explain Dr. B.R. Ambedkars critique of caste.
Explain Buddhas fourth noble truth.   
Bring out the relationship between concepts of svadharma and nika ma karma.
Explain the steps to be taken for the improvement of our environment.
What are the main issues in feminist ethics ?
Explain Aristotles doctrine of the golden mean.       
Bring out the relationship between sama nyadharma and varna ramadharma. 
Explain Nya ys causal argument to prove the existence of God.    
Examine Mahatma Gandhis critique of Vivekanandas views on religious tolerance.    
Examine the significance of rebirth in the central teaching of Bhagvadgita.    
Can the existence of evil be reconciled with the omnipotence of God ? Explain. 
Bring out the relationship between the doctrine of aneka ntava da and the doctrine of sya dva da.What is the included angle of a hexagon ?
Which joint is used to join two square shaft ?
What is the value of margin m in a single riveted lap joint ?  
In bushed bearing the bush is generally made up with ? 
Which thread is usually used for power transmission among these ? 
Construct an isometric scale of 50 mm length.
Draw its isometric projection and give all dimensions. 
Indicate the direction of viewing. 
Draw the isometric projection of the combination of solids. 
Show the common axis and indicate the direction of viewing.
Give all dimensions. 
Draw to scale 1:1 the standard profile of a Knuckle Thread External.           
Sketch free hand the front view and side view of a Plain stud with diameter 20 mm. 
Assemble these parts correctly and then draw to scale 1 : 1 its following view.  
Print the title and the scale used. 
Draw the projection symbol. 
Give 6 important dimensions.
Describe the origin and development of the Rajasthani or Pahari School of Miniature Painting. 
Appreciate any of the following miniature. 
Which high values of human-life are incorporated in the Indian National Flag, which are expressed through the forms and colours used in it ? 
What inspiration do you get from looking at our National Flag ?
Write a critical-note on the compositional arrangement of any one of the following contemporary (modern) Indian art-works, duly based on the aesthetic-parameters 
Write any five main features of the Rajasthani or Pahari School of Miniature Painting.
Mention the names of any five painters of the Mughal School of Miniature Panting 
included in your course of study, which you like most. 
Mention the names of five painters of the Bengal School included in your course of study. 
Mention the title(s) of any three graphic prints, a painting and a sculpture of the contemporary (modern) Indian Art, included in your course of study, which you like most.
Write an essay on the main features of the Rajasthani or Pahari miniature paintings.
Evaluate the aesthetic grandeur of any the following miniature-paintings, based on its(a) Name of artist / sub-school,(b) Medium & technique, (c) Subject matter and (d) Composition 
Which human life-values are expressed in any of the following paintings of the Bengal School? 
Write a critical note in short on the compositional-arrangement of any of the following contemporary (modern) Indian sculpture, based on the aesthetical parameters : 
Identify any relevant painting, included in your course of study comprising of the following features and explain them in the painting accordingly. 
Under whose Mughal Emperors period (patronage) were the following miniature paintings produced ? 
Mention the titles of any two miniature paintings of the Deccani school included in your course of study, which you like most. 
Mention the names of five painters of the Bengal School included in your course of study.
Mention the title of the art-work done by each of the following contemporary (modern) Indian artists, which is included in your course of study ? 
Suggest two different data types for the SessionCode and NoofRegistrations attributes
What is the degree and the cardinality of the table TRAINING ?
Which attribute can act as the Primary key for the table TRAINING ?
If a new attribute named SessionDate is added to the above table that will store the Date of the Session, then suggest the most appropriate data type that should be used for this new attribute.
Name the type of symbol he has created.
Which of the following multimedia technology will help him achieve this? 
Explain the concept of Foreign key with the help of an example.
Give the full forms of. 
Which feature will you use to see faint images of the keyframes before and after the current frame ? 
Name the two tags used to insert a Flash movie into a HTML file.
Name the active layer.
Name these three modes and explain the usage of any one layer mode. 
Write the procedure and property settings for animating the above scenario. 
Assume that the colour remains the same during the animation. 
Can you suggest her which element to use for these two inputs ? Justify your suggestion.  
Write the HTML code to generate the web page in the format shown.
Which of the following statement is false about the POST method ? 
Which variable is used to collect form data sent with both the GET and POST methods ? 
Give the output of the following statements. 
Name the inbuilt function used for the following. 
Perform a case-insensitive string comparison.
Change the following code using dowhile loop without affecting the output. 
Differentiate between the unset( ) function and the session_destroy( ) function.
What is the significance of the delimiters in the above code ? 
Name the two different types of one dimensional arrays in PHP.
Identify any one compound assignment operator from the above code.
Give the output of the above code.        
Fill in the blanks to complete the above code fragment that reads the text in the file exam.txt and displays the content line by line on the web page.
Which machine actually executes the script ?
Identify the statement that is equivalent to the given statement.
What type of value will be stored in num1 and num2 ? 
Give the output of the above code if the values input by the user are 20.5 and 23.5.
Write the HTML code to generate the following form. 
Write the JavaScript code to display the message. 
What type of network is formed ? 
Which communication media out of Coaxial cable, Optical fiber, Bluetooth, Satellite link should be used to transfer the file ? 
Which protocol helps us to browse through web pages using internet browsers ? Name any one internet browser. 
Write two advantages of 4G over 3G Mobile Telecommunication Technologies in terms of speed and services ? 
Draw the most appropriate cable layout to connect all three blocks for efficient communication. 
Name the topology formed by the above cable layout.
Name the block that is most suitable to house the server for this campus with a suitable reason.
Which wireless channel out of the following should be chosen by the Company Management to connect to their campus in another country ? 
What happens to the Network with Star topology if the following happen. 
Write the purpose of http. 
Write the purpose of the following devices.
How does Open source software emphasize collaboration and sharing? 
Explain 2 measures that a school should take to ensure security of their computer network. 
Write the value that will be assigned to variable x after executing the following statement. 
Distinguish between parselnt() and parseDouble() methods. 
What is the difference between a PasswordField and a TextField ?  
What is the datatype of fname ?  
Is 456 the same as 456 ? Give reason.   
Rewrite code after correcting errors.
Expand XML. 
How are XML tags different from HTML tags ? 
Write two points.
What values will be assigned to b, r and t after execution of the following code 
What is the relationship between SQL and MySQL ? 
Define the term database transaction.  
Rewrite the correct statement.
Write SQL query to display employee details from table named Employee.
Identify Single Row functions of MySQL amongst the following.
Write the following statement using OR logical operator. 
What value will be saved in the Location column ? 
Write SQL statement to display the details of rows in the employee table whose location is left blank.  
What will be the output of the above given SELECT statement ?  
Write the values of num2 and num3 after execution of following code 
Write the purpose of lineWrap property of TextArea.  
What will be displayed in jTextField1 after the following code is executed ? 
Write the values that will be assigned to a, b, c and m after executing the following Java code. 
Write the value that will be stored in variable p after execution of following code. 
How many times will the loop execute ? 
Rewrite the correct code underlining all the corrections made. 
Write commands in SQL for (i) to (viii) and output for (ix) and (x). 
Write SQL query to create a table Participant with the following structure.
Name the Primary keys in both the tables. 
What should be the data type of ActualAttendees column and HighestAttendee column ?
write commands in SQL for (i), (ii) and (iii) given below
List two main requirements that a company needs to put in place to offer an online shopping facility to customers.
Write two examples where e-governance has reduced Paper work. 
Write the type of C++ tokens (keywords and user defined identifiers) from the following:  
Write the names of those header files, which Jayneel needs to include, for successful compilation and execution of the following code.   
Rewrite the following C++ code after removing any/all syntactical errors with each correction underlined. 
Find and write the output of the following C++ program code :
Look at the following C++ code and find the possible output(s) from the options (i) to (iv) following it. 
Also, write the maximum values that can be assigned to each of the variables Low and High. 
Differentiate between Data Hiding and Data Encapsulation in context of Object Oriented Programming. 
Also give a suitable example illustrating the same in C++. 
Which Object Oriented Programming feature is illustrated by the Member Function 1 and Member Function 2 together in the class GAME ? 
Write Statement 1 and Statement 2 to execute Member Function 1 and Member Function 2 respectively.
Write the definition of a class FRAME in C++ with following description 
Which type of Inheritance out of the following is illustrated in the above example ? 
Write the names of all the member functions, which are directly accessible by the object M of class MEDIA as declared in main( ) function.  
What will be the order of execution of the constructors, when the object M of class MEDIA is declared inside main ( ) ? 
Write Statement 2 to call function Print( ) of class PRINT from the object M of class MEDIA. 
Write the definition of a function MIXER(int A[], int N) in C++,which should multiply 2 to the odd values present in the array and multiply 3 to the even values present in the array.
Write definition for a function TOPBOTTOM(int M[][5],int N,int M) in C++, which finds and displays sum of the values in topmost row and sum of the values in bottommost row of a matrix M.
Find the address of the element G[5] [10],if the element G[2] [4] is stored at the memory location 52000.
Write the definition of a member function PUSHBOOK( ) in C++ to add information of BOOL in a static stack implemented using an array of structure BOOK.
Evaluate the following Postfix expression showing the stack contents for each step of conversion.
Write a function definition ARTICLES() in C++ to count all the articles the, a and an present in a text file BOOK.TXT.
Write definition of a function CALSAL( ) in C++ to find the total salary paid to all the workers in a company. 
Find the output of the following C++ code considering that the binary file PRODUCT.DAT exists on the hard disk with a list of data of 350 products. 
Which of the following can be used as valid variable identifier(s) in Python ? 
Name the Python Library modules which need to be imported to invoke the following functions: 
Rewrite the following code in Python after removing all syntax error(s). 
Underline each correction done in the code. 
Find and write the output of the following Python code : 
What are the possible outcome(s) executed from the following code ? 
Also specify the maximum and minimum values that can be assigned to variable N. 
List four characteristics of Object Oriented Programming
Differentiate between function 1 and function 2 with respect to their execution.
Write statements, which will execute function 1 and function 2. 
Define a class RING in Python with following specifications 
Write a program in Python to input a number and display its each digit reversed. 
Write any two features that make it an important characteristic of Object Oriented Programming. 
What will be the status of the following list after the First, Second and Third pass of the bubble sort method used for arranging the following elements in descending order? 
Write definition of a method ZeroEndingSum(POINTS) to add those values in the list of POINTS, which are ending with 0.  
Write AddScore(GAME) and DelScore(GAME) methods in Python to Add a new SCORE in the list of scores of a GAME and Remove a SCORE from a list of 
scores of a GAME, considering these methods to act as PUSH and POP operations of the data structure Stack.
Write definition of a Method SEARCHNAME(MEMBERS, NAME) to search and display the serial number of first presence of a NAME from a list of MEMBERS.
Evaluate the following Postfix notation of expression: 
Differentiate between file modes r+ and r with respect to Python
Write a method in Python to read lines from a text file NOTES.TXT, and count those lines, which are ending with . or ,. 
Considering the following definition of class FURNITURE, write a method in Python to search and display the content in a pickled file COMPANY.DAT, where 
FTYPE is matching with the value HOME.  
which has been used to produce the output as shown in OUTPUT ? 
Also, find the Degree and Cardinality of the OUTPUT.
Write SQL queries for (i) to (iv) and find outputs for SQL queries (v) to (viii), 
which are based on the tables : 
State Absorption Laws of Boolean Algebra and verify them using truth table. 2 
Draw the Logic Circuit of the following Boolean Expression using only NOR Gates : 
Derive a Canonical POS expression for a Boolean function F, represented by the following truth table : 
Reduce the following Boolean Expression to its simplest form using K-Map 
Write one name of wireless and one wired communication medium.
Name any two private Internet Service Providers (company) in India.
If we name her role in these companies, what it will be out of the following : 
Suggest the most appropriate block/location to house the SERVER in the PUNE Campus (out of the 4 blocks) to get the best and effective connectivity. 
Justify your answer.
Suggest a device/software to be installed in the PUNE Campus to take care of data security. 
Suggest the best wired medium and draw the cable layout (Block to Block) to efficiently connect various Blocks within the PUNE campus. 
Suggest a device and the protocol that shall be needed to provide Video Conferencing solution between PUNE Campus and Hyderabad Head Office.
Can haploid plants be converted to diploid?How? 
How does Herceptin work to treat early stage breast cancer? 
What is contact inhibition?  
Why? 
Justify giving reason. 
What problems make the downstream processing of recombinant proteins difficult and costly ?  
What are the essential components of a microbial growth media? 
Differentiate between synthetic and semi-synthetic medium used for microbial growth.
Why is foaming undesirable in microbiological processes ? 
Name two commonly used antifoams.
Suggest two examples of genetic modification for improving nutritional quality in cereals.
Enlist four defined steps of micropropagation in plants.  
Differentiate between zygotic and somatic embryos.  
Name any two databases commonly used in bioinformatics and the type of information available from each of these database.  
Why proteome of a given species is larger than its genome ? 
Give two reasons .
Differentiate between Batch and Continuous culture.  
Give three reasons to support the statement.   
What is this substance ? 
How does it act and under what condition body produces it ?  
Which features will help him to identify this petri-dish among the others containing normal cells?  
What is Molecular Pharming ? 
What are the advantages of producing desired proteins by this method ?  
What precautions should be taken to maximize protein stability during its purification  steps?
State two major factors which determine purification scheme for a given protein.
Schematically indicate various steps of Southern hybridization technique. 
Why viruses are considered as ideal vehicles to transfer foreign genes into eukaryotic cells in culture?  
Differentiate between YAC and BAC vectors.  
Give one example and function of each of the following protein based products :  
How can FISH be used to monitor the effect of chemotherapy ? 
What is the role of NICK translation in this process ?     
What is the role of DNA ligase and alkaline phosphatase in r-DNA technology ? 
Schematically illustrate the technique of site-directed mutagenesis.  
What physical and chemical properties of naturally occurring enzymes can be changed by site-directed mutagenesis ? 
Briefly highlight the technique and suggest how it can be used to detect pathogenic microbes.  
Describe the technique developed by OFarrel to compare similar proteins from different sources.  
Who developed the technique of protein fingerprinting ? 
Expand NCBI. 
In a genome analysis,are in-silico prediction methods for gene number accurate? 
Suggest any two reasons.   
How is it useful to search a database to establish the identity of a newly determined DNA sequence ?  
Why is bias strip used to finish the curved edges of a garment ?  
Give the root word for Ready-to-wear.
Why is it important to choose a correct block for design development?
What is meant by the term Power-dressing?
Elaborate the term Garment-collection.
Why is dart-manipulation done?
What is the most efficient way of pinning fabric ? 
Describe the procedure of trueing of front shoulder dart.  
What are the measurement required for making necklines? 
How will you take them ? 
Name the fabrics preferred for mens clothing. 
Why are easy to maintain fabrics preferred for teenage children ?
Why are natural fabrics more comfortable than man-made fabrics ? 
Give one advantage and one disadvantage of natural fabrics.
What is the main characteristic of a good sizing system ? 
List the factors influencing various sizes.
Why was trade association formed by Haute-Couture designers ? 
Name the association. 
What points should be kept in mind while selecting the type and length of the placker ? 
Which company was the first one to use studs as trimming and why ? 
Mention its two kinds. 
Briefly explain any three methods. 
Briefly explain the set, line and balance.
What points should be kept in mind to provide a smooth shoulder appearance in a garment ? 
Briefly describe the manner of draping Uttariya or Antariya in ancient India.
Differentiate between natural, synthetic and blended fabrics. 
Briefly explain the three steps involved in preparing woven fabrics before cutting. 
What all information should be included on a pattern ? 
Give three characteristics of a well fitted armscye.
Briefly explain the effects of Indian films and television serials on fashion.
Describe the various techniques of armour construction. (any five) 
Briefly explain the influence of war uniforms on civilian clothing. 
With the help of diagrams explain the steps of shifting waist dart to centre front.  
Explain the steps of manipulating shoulder dart to under arm seam. Draw relevant figures. 
Briefly describe the three types of basic sleeves used in garments. 
What design variations can be achieved in a sleeveless bodice by altering the shoulder width ? 
Why is China known as production-giant ? 
State the reasons behind outsourcing of mass-manufacturing to other countries ? 
How are mass-manufactured garments different from couture garments ?  
Give brief description of casualslacks, dressy-pants, baggy trousers and cargo-pants
Enumerate the organisms causing bacillary dysentery.
Describe the laboratory diagnosis of bacillary dysentery. 
Write briefly on any two of the following 
Write short notes on any three of the following : 
Define antigen and antibody. Describe Auto immunity. 
Write briefly on any two of the following :
Write short notes on any two of the following : 
Draw labelled diagram of any two of the following : 
Choose the most appropriate options.
Which of the following is the original purpose of SQL ?  
Which segment do eBay, Amazon.com belong ? 
Which of the following are advantages normally associated with B2B e-commerce ?
What would be the output of the following fraction of code ? 
With x =  0, which of the following are legal lines of Java code for changing the value of x to 1 ? 
Which of these operators can be used to concatenate two or more String objects ?
Which SQL statement is used to extract data from a database ? 
With SQL, how do you select all the columns from a table named Persons ?
Which of these is an incorrect array declaration?
Define DDL and DML.
Define Aggregate functions.
What is the default ordering of data using the ORDER BY clause ? 
How could it be changed ? 
Write any two major benefits of e-commerce.
What is e governance objective ?
Write any two advantages of e-reservation.
Write the output of following code :
What is meant by exception handling in java ?
What are the desirable attributes of an employer ?  
Write SQL commands : 
On the basis of the Table Pharma given above, write the output(s) produced by executing the following queries : 
Write any three measures to ensure that as an employee you are compatible with change and adapt easily to it.
Write any three applications where java is used.  Write the output of following code : 
What is the meaning of Work integrated learning ? 
What are the challenges in implementing e-governance ?
Write the solution of challenges faced by e-commerce.
What are the benefits to students of Work Integrated Learning ?
What are the advantages of e-learning ? 
Identify the lanthanide which is obtained only by synthesis. 
Which one of the following compounds shows Frenkel defect?
What is electronic polarization? Derive an expression for electronic polarizability in terms of the radius of the atom.
Write short notes on polarization and dielectric constant related to a dielectric material.
How would you classify diamagnetic, paramagnetic and ferromagnetic substances based on their magnetic behavior along with examples.
find the relative permeability of the material. 
Describe the construction of He-Ne laser and discuss its working principle with relevant energy level diagram.
Find its band gap in eV.Explain the principle, construction and working of a semi conductor laser with the help of a suitable diagram.
State application of lasers in industry, medicine and military.  
What are the two principle factors that cause the properties of nanomaterials to dier from other materials? 
Discuss in detail these two principle factors. 
Give any four applications of nanomaterials in bio fields.
How do the electrical properties, magnetic properties and mechanical properties of nanomaterials change with size. 
What is the principle behind the TEM? 
Explain Transmission Electron Microscopy characterization technique of nanomaterials. 
Illustrate the physical significance of wave function. 
Derive time independent Schroedinger wave equation for a free particle. 
calculate its de Broglie wavelength.
What is dual nature of light? 
Derive the expression for de Broglie wavelength by extending dual nature of light to material particle.
What will be its minimum energy?  
Estimate the position of fermi level and calculate concentration of electrons in an n-type semiconductor.
Illustrate the eect of doping and temperature on conductivity mechanism of Intrinsic and extrinsic semiconductors. 
Derive an expression for carrier concentration of anintrinsic semiconductor. 
Show that the Fermi level lies at the centre of energy gap.
Where does the Fermi level exists in case of p-type and n-type semiconductors at T = 0K. 
How polarizability is related with electric dipolmoment? Discuss.
On what factors do the electronic polarization depend? 
Derive an expression for electronic polarizability in terms of the radius of the atom. 
Calculate the dielectric constant of the material. 
How are magnetization M, applied magnetic field H and flux density are related.
How are dia, para and ferromagnetic substances dier in their properties? 
Explain their behavior with the help of examples.
Find the relative permeability of the material.  
Discuss basic requirements for a acoustically good hall.
Describe an experimental method to determine the sound absorption coecient of a material.
Calculate average sound absorption coecient.
How ultra sonic waves dier from infrasonic waves?
Explain magnetostrictioin methods of producing ultrasonic waves. 
Calculate the fundamental frequency when Y = 7.91010 N/m2 and  = 2650 Kg/m3. 
Differentiate between elastic and a rigid body.
Obtain a relation for resultant and concurrent forces in space. 
Obtain an equation for resultant forcer R. 
Discuss special cases when s = 00, s = 900 and s = 1800. 
What are concurrent forces?
Explain triangle law of forces. 
Determine the resultant system of forces. 
State laws of friction.
Derive an equation for acceleration of body of mass m sliding down the inclined plane at an angle with horizontal. 
Find tension in the string and also if the horizontal plane is friction less find the tension. 
Obtain a relation between angle of friction and coecient of friction of a body of mass m just sliding on a rough incline plain.   
Show that pushing of lawn roller requires more force than pulling. 
Find the tension in the string for (i) coecient of friction ,(ii) friction less inclined plane. 
State and prove perpendicular axes theorem.
Calculate moment of inertia of thin rod of length L and mass M. 
How much pulling force is to be applied on the thread wound on axle to produce an angular acceleration 0.5 rad/s 
Explain basic principle of moment of inertia its applications.
State and prove parallel axis theorem.
Calculate MI of a rectangular lamina about centroid and perpendicular to it whose mass is 2 kg, length 10 cm breadth 4 cm 
Derive Nernst equation for a single electrode potential and explain the terms involved in it. 
What are its applications.
Define the specific resistance of a solution? 
Explain the specific conductance with diagrammatic illustrate of specific conductivity. 
What are its units?  
Calculate the equivalent conductance of the solution. 
What are the reference electrodes? 
Describe the construction, working and applications of calomel electrode.
Describe the construction, working and applications of Ni-Cd cell. 
Specific conductance of an electrolyte decreases whereas equivalent conductance increases on dilution,Explain? 
Give an account of the various factors influencing corrosion by giving suitable examples.
What is oxidation corrosion and how does it takes place? 
Describe the mechanism of oxidation corrosion.
What is a paint? 
Explain the constituents and function of a paint.
Explain the process of galvanizing and tinning? 
Mention its applications.
How do you estimate dissolve oxygen in water?
What is meant by sterilization of water? 
Explain non sterilization of water is carried out by using chlorine and ozone.
What is meant by carbonate and non-carbonate hardness of water? 
Explain with examples.
Describe the ion-exchange process for softening of water? 
What are its advantages and limitations. 
Calculate temporary and permanent hardness in degree clark. 
What are elastomers? 
Give the preparation, properties and applications of Buna-S and Thiokol rubber.
Explain the dierence between thermoplastic and thermosetting resins.
Define refractories and how they are classified and give the examples.  
Write the reaction involved in setting and hardening of cement.
What are cloud point and pour point.
What is vulcanization of rubber? How does it improve natural rubber. 
Explain proximate analysis of coal? How is it carried out. 
What its significance.
Define calorific value of fuel. 
Distinguish gross and net calorific value.
What are the characteristics of a good fuel?
Explain proximate analysis of coal? 
How is it carried out? 
What its significance?
Define calorific value of fuel. 
Distinguish gross and net calorific value.
What are the characteristics of a good fuel?
Calculate the gross and net calorific values of the fuel.
What is octane number and cetane number? 
Explain their significance.
Draw a plain scale of R.F 1:40 to read Metres and Decimetres and long enough to measure up to 8 m. 
Show lengths of 4.3 m and 6.2 m on this scale.
Draw the hyperbola when the focus and the vertex are 25 mm apart. 
Consider eccentricity as 3/2. 
Draw a tangent and normal to the curve at a point that is 35 mm from the focus
Draw its projection. 
Locate the traces. 
Draw the projection of the cylinder.
Draw the following views of the object shown pictorially in Figure 2. 
Draw the isometric view of Figure 1.
Draw the development of the lateral surface of the prism. 
Draw the elevation, plan and side view of the picture shown in the Figure 3.
What is the difference between low level and high level language and uses of them?
What is the difference between assignment and equality operation?
What is difference between while and do-while loops?
What are the uses of functions in C language?
What is an array variable? 
How it is different from ordinary variable?
Write the differences between structure and union.
What is the use of fseek() function in files. 
Write its syntax?  
What are the steps involved in program development process?
What is Central Processing Unit (CPU) in a computer? 
Explain about various components  and their functions of CPU.
List the basic data types, their sizes and range of values supported by C language.
What do you mean by operator precedence and associativity? 
How one can override the  precedence defined by C language? 
Give illustrative examples.
Write a C program to swap (exchange) the values of two variables without using temporary  variable. 
Explain about various logical operators available in C language with examples.
Write C program to convert the given decimal number into binary number.
Explain about different storage classes with examples. 
Discuss their uses and scope.
Write a recursive function for finding the factorial value of a given number. 
Explain different string handling functions available in C language.
Write a function to multiply two matrices of order mxn and nxl and write the main program to input array values and output resultant matrix.
Discuss various valid arithmetic operations that can be performed on pointers in C.
Explain the following functions in file operations: 
How to pass structure variable to functions? 
Explain with example.  
Define system software and application software and give examples for each one.
Explain pre- and post- decrement and increment operation on a variable with an example.
Write the differences between nested if() statement and switch() statement.
What are the differences between recursion and iteration?
What are the differences between an array and string?
How does a structure differ from an array?
Distinguish between text mode and binary mode operation of a file.
Distinguish between machine, assembly, low-level and high-level languages.
Explain the features and characteristics of procedural and object oriented languages.
What is meant by type conversion? 
Why is necessary?
Explain about implicit and explicit type conversion with examples.
Explain different relational operators available in C language with examples.
Write a C program to convert the given years into number of months and days. 
Explain various iterative statements available in C language with examples.
Write a C program to find the roots of a quadratic equation for all possible  combination values of a, b and c.
Explain about the actual arguments and formal argument in functions. 
What is the  difference between these arguments? 
Explain the rules to call a function in a main function.
Write a C program using functions to compute the function 
Tabulate the values from 00 to 1800 in steps of 300 in the main program. 
Explain the following functions in files:
Represent a complex number using a structure in C. 
Write a C program that uses functions  to perform the following operations: (i) Addition of two complex numbers (ii) Subtraction of two complex numbers  
Why is the C language called as middle level language?
What are library functions? Mention their uses in C language.
What is the difference between break statement and exit() statement in C language.
Differentiate between built-in functions and user-defined functions.
What is a null character?
What are its uses in strings?
What are the advantages and disadvantages with bit-fields?
Why register storage class does not support all data types?  
Discuss the features and characteristics of application software and system software.
Discuss about different computer languages with examples. 
Explain different bitwise operators available in C with examples.
Write a C program  that prompts the user to input an integer. 
Explain various selection statements available in C language with examples.
Read the marks of eight subjects and calculate the percentage of marks
What is the difference between recursive and non-recursive functions? 
Give their merits and  demerits.
Discuss in details about local variables and global variables with respect to their scope and  extent.
Write a function to reverse a given integer number. 
Also write main program.  
What is an array?
What are the disadvantages in implementing arrays in C language?  
Discuss problems for implementing of multi-dimensional arrays in C language.
Write C program to concatenate two strings without using strcat() function.
Write a C program to transpose the given two dimensional array.   
How do you define a structure, structure variables, access their elements and perform operations on them? 
Explain with examples.
Write a C program to copy the content of one file into another file.      
What is the difference between procedural language and object-oriented language?
Explain about ternary (or conditional) operator.
Write the limitations of switch() and for() statements.
What is meant by modular programming?
How does C complier handle the values in an array internally?
What is the difference between a pointer and dangling pointer?
Why addition and multiplication of two addresses is not possible in pointers   
What is algorithm? 
What are the main steps followed in the development of an algorithm?   
Write an algorithm for sum of digits in a given number.
Describe procedure for creating and running C programs using algorithmic approach.
Explain about formatted and unformatted input and output functions available in C language. 
Also explain different output format modifiers in C language.
Explain different arithmetic operators available in C language with examples.
Write a C program to check whether the given integer number is palindrome or not.
Explain in details about multi-way selection statements with example.
Write C program to evaluate the following series:     
Explain different parameter passing techniques in functions with examples.
Write C program find the Greatest Common Divisor (GCD) of two numbers using a recursive functions.  
Explain the following string handling functions with examples:
Write a C program to count number of vowels present in a sentence.
Write a C program to add two 2-dimensional arrays.           
Explain the following with examples:  
Write a C program to read a data file containing integers.
Find the largest and smallest  integers and display them.
What would be the quantities of lime and soda required to soften one litre of this water? 
Suggest one method each for fabrication of these two. 
Which of the two  metals Mg and Sn can be used and what is the reason for your selection? 
Give the Dulongs formula for the calorific value of a solid fuel, explaining the terms involved in it.
What are the advantages of phase transfer catalyst over conventional catalyst?
If methanol is used as a fuel in a fuel cell, what would be the reactions at the electrodes? 
What are biodegradable polymers and why are they important?   
What are fibre reinforced plastics?  
What are the roles of the reinforcement and the matrix  in the properties of these fibre reinforced plastics?
With neat sketches, explain injection moulding and compression moulding
Calculate the percentages of different constituents. 
Why rocket fuels are different from normal fuels?
Differentiate between petrol knocking and diesel knocking.  
Describe the construction of calomel electrode.                
Explain water line corrosion.                
Write briefly about electroless plating.  
With suitable examples explain sol-gel method of preparation of nano materials.                 
What are super conductors?  
Mention their applications?                 
Why green chemistry is important for engineers? 
Explain the complexometric determination of hardness of water. 
Calculate the hardness of the hard water sample.
How does chlorination sterilize drinking water?                       
How are refractories classified? 
Give one example each for the different classes.                         
Explain the mechanism of hydrodynamic lubrication.                 
What are electric insulators? Discuss three important properties of these insulators.   
What is the most commonly employed reinforcing  material used for producing reinforced plastics?  
What is the role of the reinforcement? 
What is bio-diesel and how is it obtained?  
How does it differ from normal diesel? 
Give two examples of such metals and explain why they are passive.  
Explain the sol-gel method of preparing a nano material. 
How in reverse osmosis different from electro-dialysis? 
What do you understand by viscosity index of an oil? 
Compare natural gas and LPG as fuels.
What are stereo-regular polymers?  
Explain with a neat representation syndiotactic polymers. 
Explain how Bakelite is produced.                     
Write notes on Buna S rubber. 
What are stereo-regular polymers?  
Explain with a neat representation syndiotactic polymers. 
Explain how Bakelite is produced.                     
Write notes on Buna S rubber.  
Calculate the volume of air required for the complete combustion of one  cubic meter of this producer gas. 
Describe the construction of standard hydrogen electrode.                  
Explain with suitable example, differential aeration corrosion.                  
Differentiate between cathodic metal coating and anodic metal coating.
Describe the CVD method of preparing carbon nano tubes.                
Explain the principles of green chemistry.                 
Explain Meissner effect.
Describe the CVD method of preparing carbon nano tubes.                
Explain the principles of green chemistry.                 
Explain Meissner effect.          
What are the different types of scales one comes across in boilers?  
Why are these scales undesirable?                
How does a deioniser remove the hardness of water?                
Explain break point-chlorination.                                                                     
Describe the determination of refractoriness of a refractory brick.                             
What is a lubricant and what are the different functions of a lubricant?                
Give an out-line of the production of cement.   
What is meant by Human Resource? Give examples from various professions.
What are the major problems faced by public because of auto drivers? 
What do you think is the proper solution to this problem? 
What is the difference between mass production and production by masses? 
Define Alternative Energy Sources. 
Give examples with the industries in which they can be used.
Mention any two actions of humans that lead to animal extinct. 
Explain how these actions affect animals.
Can professional relationships be same as personal relationships? 
Give two reasons to support your answer.
What was the fat mans perspective to War? 
Is he really happy with his condition? Give reasons.
Write in detail how Srinivasa Ramanujan is an invaluable human resource, particularly to the field of Mathematics.
What exactly is the problem with Mr. Neaves ideal family? 
What happens when the atoms of a substance are regroupe ?
Give a reason.
What can be concluded from the statements above?
Give a title to the passage.
Write a synonym to the word discernible.
What are the uses of chlorine?
List the advantages and disadvantages of Alternative Energy Sources. 
What can be the substitutes for power to small scale industries and how?
Describe the character of Albert Edward Foreman.
Write at least two synonyms for the following words
What kind of changes did science and technology bring into our lives? 
What are the advantages and disadvantages of these changes?
What made Mriganko Babu see Abhiram in the dusk time? 
How did he find his watch? 
Match the words in column A with their antonyms in column B. 
What kind of a scientist is Salim Ali? 
Support your answer with suitable examples from the text.
Do you think there are many villages lost like the authors in India? 
Is it for good or bad? 
Support your answer with examples from present projects in your state/place.
Use the appropriate forms of the verbs in the passage given below: 
How important is training in service industry? 
Support your answer with suitable examples from your daily life.
Compare Martin Luther King and Gandhiji as leaders of two different nations.
Write one paragraph each on any two of the following: 
Why is human resource considered invaluable?
Write two major problems and solutions to road traffic problems in India.
How is production by masses better than mass production?
What are alternative energy sources? 
How do you think they can help in the progress of  our country?
How are humans contributing to animal extinct? 
Explain with two examples. 
How are personal relationships different from professional relationships and why?
What was the unbelievable truth to the bank manager about Albert Edward Foreman? 
Why is it unbelievable to the manager? 
Define the role of human resources in any industry. 
How can this resource strengthen the industry?
Do you think Mr. Neaves family is an ideal family? Why/why not? 
How do you identify the best solution to a given problem? 
What kind of problems can be given quick solutions?
What is the meaning of the word  quantifiable?
What kind of problems cannot be given quick and single solutions? 
Give a title to this passage.
What is the saying to build a better mouse trap mean? 
Write a letter to the editor of a newspaper listing the problems faced by private transport users in a city like Hyderabad.
What was the common problem everyone in the compartment was facing?
How did their perspectives change?      
Write the information in the form of a passage of about 200 to 250 words.
What does the passage Silent Spring talk about technological advancements in our lives? 
Do you agree with the author? Why/why not?
What are the characteristics of Albert Edward Foreman that the youth have to learn from him?
Write at least two synonyms for the following words:  
What are Salim Alis contributions as an ornithologist to Indian bird life?
Did Mriganko Babu really see Abhiram? 
Give instances from the text to support your answer.
Match the words in column A with their antonyms in column B. 
Use these antonyms in your own words
What are the major steps we need to take as a normal public to save animal life from extinction to  maintain ecological balance?
What was the havoc created by Hirakud Dam in the lives of the people who lived on its banks?
Use the appropriate forms of the verbs in the passage given below: 
How does training help any industry run smoothly? 
Is the training required for experienced employees also? 
Give reasons to support your answer.
What are qualities of Martin Luther King that made him a unique and successful leader?
Write one paragraph each on any two of the following topics: 
How is human resource the backbone of every industry?
How do you think politicians and police are failing in solving the road traffic problem in India? 
Why? 
Define mass production and production by masses.
Mention any two alternative energy resources that can be best used in rural India? Give reasons for considering these energy sources better than others.
Mention two main causes that affect wild life in IIT Madras campus.
Can you force your boss to go for a movie with you?
Compare and contrast the Vicar with the Verger stating two characteristics of each of them.  
Justify Indian governments decision of celebrating 22nd December as National Mathematics Day.
Who do you think is the cause for conditions in Mr. Neaves family? 
Justify your answer with suitable instances from the text.   
Why is it not always a good idea to aim at implementing the highest degree of transparency possible.
What are the different ways to construct a file server using threads?
Is this server stateful or stateless?
How a RPC client binds with the RPC server?
Explain the difference between the primitives mpi_bsend and mpi_isend in MPI.
What are the different alternatives of communication in Distributed System.
Design distributed application using socket in java.
Describe actions to be taken with references to local resources when migrating code to another machine.
Explain the commonly used models for configuring distributed computing system.
Design a distributed application using RMI.
Describe the design issues for server.
What are message brokers? 
Explain Message brokers in the distributed system.
Name the terms by which they will be called individually and collectively.
Calculate the net amount of Profit  Loss transferred to the capital accounts of A and C.
Calculate the new profit sharing ratio.
How is dissolution of partnership different from dissolution of partnership firm.
Why are irredeemable debentures also known as perpetual debentures.
Distinguish between shares and debentures on the basis of convertibility.
Prepare Rs Capital Account on his death to be presented to his executors.
Present the share capital of the company in its Balance Sheet.
Identify any two values that the company wants to propagate.
Prepare Profit & Loss Appropriation Account and Partners Capital Account.
Prepare Discount on Issue of Debenture Account for the first three years starting from April 1 2013.
Prepare Revaluation Account Partners Capital Accounts Partners Current Accounts and the Balance Sheet of the reconstituted firm.  
Pass necessary Journal entries on Cs admission.
Advice accountant of company under which Major Heads and Sub Heads if any he should present the above items in the Balance Sheet of company.
List any two values that the company is observing in the maintenance of its accounting records and preparation of its financial statements.
Prepare Comparative Statement of Profit & Loss of X L Limited.
From the following Balance Sheet of Ajanta Limited as on March 31 2017 prepare a Cash Flow Statement,which of the following commands is used to move to the beginning of the Current row.
Join line in the context of Access table means.
Enumerate the basic requirements of computerized accounting system for a business organization.
Explain that generation of ledger accounts is not a necessary condition for making trial balance in a computerized accounting system.
How Internal manipulation of accounting records is much easier in computerized accounting than in manual accounting.
Discuss the security measures you would like to employ for securing the data from such threats.
Justify the reason behind removal of moisture during its preparation.
What is vermicomposting?
The insecticidal property of neem is due to presence of which active principle ingredient?
Write down the name of two species of honey bees which can be used in commercial bee keeping.  
What is kitchen gardening?
Where is National Centre for Mushroom located in India?
When was Plant Nursery Registration Act was enforced in India?
How presence of a lawn around the place of living or work is beneficial to the people?
How can organic farming improve soil productivity?
Write two objectives of National Project on Organic Farming(NPOF)?
Discuss the advantages of using sulfur dioxide as preservative.
Define food additive.
How is it different from food preservative?
Define Field Capacity.
Enlist four value added products that can be made from cereals.
What are the principles of food preservation?
Describe the process of their preparation.
Explain the process of preparation of mango pickle.
Describe any three methods for.
Justify the reason behind pre cooling in harvested fruits and vegetables before their storage.
Mention the common methods of packaging adopted in food preservation.
Describe drip irrigation system.
Write advantages and limitation of sprinkler irrigation system.
Explain the functions and deficiency symptoms of nitrogen and phosphorus.
Draw the layout plan for a kitchen garden with an area of 40 m2. 
What are the advantages of kitchen garden?
What are the important Government Schemes for the promotion of organic farming in our country?
Define flush in respect of mushroom cultivation.
Write the names of most commonly cultivated mushrooms in India.
Explain the concept and components of Integrated Nutrient Management.
Explain the constraints in bio fertilizer technology.
Enumerate the importance of plant nurseries in India.
Describe various methods of sowingtransplanting of grasses during lawn making.
Describe the nutritional status of mushroom.
Identify the technique used and reason out the possibility of obtaining a new healthy plant.
State a method of cellular defense which works in all eukaryotic organisms.
Which kind of ART is suitable in this situation to form an embryo in the laboratory conditions without involving adonor? 
Write the two components of the first artificial recombinant DNA molecule constructed by Cohen and Boyer.
Name the type of cross.
Suggest with reasons any two population control measures other than contraception to address the situation.
Name the structure and write its significance in sex determination of insects.
Mention any two microbes used as food supplement and suggest their role.
Identify any other technique to improve the successful production of hybrids.
State two advantages of this technique.
Evaluate the effect of loss of biodiversity in a region. 
Mention any four such effects.
Draw the diagram of microsporangium of an Angiosperm and label any four parts.
State the function of its innermost wall layer.
Give reasons.
Show with the help of Punnett square and Identity the principle of inheritance involved in this experiment.
Explain the process by which Tasmanian wolf evolved.
Name the process that has resulted in evolution of wolf and Tasmanian wolf.
Compare and contrast the two animals shown.
Mention any two precautions to be followed to prevent the spread of this disease.
What is the role of microbes at the source?
Under which condition will they be most active and effective?
Identify the deficient enzyme and explain the technique used for cure.
What do you conclude about his condition?
Mention the positive and negative terminals.
What is the charge carried by DNA molecule and how does it help in its separation?
How are the separated DNA fragments finally isolated?
What is the resultant plant referred as?
Summarize the action of the gene introduced.
which one should be used and why?
Give reasons why the other two enzymes cannot be used?
What do the X and Y axis represent?
Identify the grassland and coniferous forest biomes from the above figure.
Why is F located at the given position in the graph?
How do you think the biologist father would try to convince his son?
Justify arguments of father and son both by mentioning positive aspects of the behavior displayed by both of them in the situation concerned.
Compare the fate of sperms shown in the diagram.
What is the role of zona pellucid in this process?
Analyze the changes occurring in the ovum during the process.
How is the entry of sperm into the ovum facilitated.
Specify the region of female reproductive system where the event represented in the diagram takes place.
Identify A and B.
Specify the source of the hormone marked in the diagram.
Reason out why A peaks before B.
Compare the role of A and B.
Under which condition will the level of B continue to remain high on the 28thday?
Explain the process of protein synthesis from processed m-RNA.
Which methodology is used while sequencing the total DNA from a cell?
Mention the group of organisms which invade this area first.
Identify the climax community of hydrarch and xerarch succession.
What is the role of a parameterargument passed in a function?
Can a default value be assigned to a parameter(Yes/No)?
If yes justify your answer with the help of a suitable example otherwise give reason.
Identify the header files which are wrongly suggested.
Rewrite the following program after removing the syntactical errors Underline each correction.
What do you mean by Data Abstraction in OOPs?
Explain its significance in programming with a suitable example.
Give the name of the feature of OOP which is implemented by Function 1 & 2 together in the above class Game.
Define a class Bill in OOP with the following specification.
Write name of the class whose constructor is invoked first on the creation of a new object of class Country.
Write name of the data members which are accessible through the object o class Country.
List name of the members which are accessible through the member function void New_Country().
Write the definition of function named Array_Swap() that will accept an integer array.
find out the base address of the array and the memory address of element stored at location.
Write the definition of a user-defined function REPEAT_ROW(int A[][3] int R int C) in C++ that will store the elements in following manner.
Evaluate the following POSTFIX expression.
Show the status of Stack after execution of each operation separately.
Differentiate between break and continue statement with the help of an example.
Identify and write the name of the module to which the following functions belong.
Write the output of the following Python code.
Write the output of the following Python program code.
write the maximum and the minimum values that can be assigned to the variable Y.
Explain operator overloading with the help of an example.
Observe the following Python code and answer the questions 1 and 2.
How is data member count different from data member Author?
Fill in the blanks.
Predict the output that will be produced on the execution of the following statements.
Write the definition of a function Reverse(X) in Python.
Write the passes of selection sort for sorting the list in ascending order till the 3rd iteration.
Fill in the blank 1 with a statement to insert OID in the Queue maintained using List.
Write a generator function to generate odd numbers between a and b.
What is Freeze drying?
What is Dioxane?
Expand ICMR DPX STEM & PAS.
Differentiate Biopsy and Autopsy.
Comment on Photomicrography.
What is Keratin?
Differentiate Mordant and Lake.
What is Vital staining?
Distinguish between Honing and stropping.
Define Metachromasia.
Give an account of Ultramicrotomy.
Describe the Procedure adopted in the Dry Mount of insects.
Classify Proteins and give an account of Ninhydrin Schiff Method.
Give an account on Cryostat and its advantages.
Describe the Procedure involved in extraction and mounting of soil microarthropods.
Explain the identification and extraction of DNA by Feuigen Nuclear Reaction and Brach Method.
What is Autoradiography and explain its applications in biology.
Explain the working principle of SEM and its sample preparation.
Describe the different steps involved in Paraffin Microtomy.
Write short notes on.
What is the difference between JDBC and ODBC.
Write a Java program to read the roll number of a student and to display the name. 
Explain the life cycle of thread in detail and write a source code to get substring of user.
Describe the mechanism to allow multiple clients to access a server through a socket.
What is the difference between Byte and Character streams in Java?
Write java program that write a string to an output file and reads the file to verify that.
Define the concept of Object Serialization with suitable example.
What is the difference between Java serve-let and JSP.
Explain JDBC Drivers in Java.
What is socket?
Explain different types of sockets provided by java.
What is RMI?
Explain Java RMI.
What is multithreading?
Explain a thread in java.
What is CORBA?
Explain advantages of CORBA.
Design a Java Application using Socket for 10 implementation of client and a server.
Design a web application using jsp.
Design a java servelet application.
Write a java application to retrieve data from database.
Which country is an example of coming together type of federation?
what is the Capita income of the low income countries in 2004?
Which previous knowledge did Gutenberg drew to design his innovation in the form of printing press?
Which  expected at her novel written by Charlotte Bronte?
Define average income.
Where is the disguised unemployment found mostly?
Which problem of the society was focused in the novel written by Charles Dickens?
Name the book by Kashi Baba that had detailed the experiences of poor workers.
Chote aur badke ka Sawal was the publish by kashiba.
Which is the most correct way of measuring a country development?
How do big private companies contribute in the development of a nation?
How can the workers in the unorganized sector be protected?
What is Per Capita Income?
Mention any two limitations of Per Capita Income as an indicator of development.
Describe the adverse effects of caste in politics in India.
How do they help in calculating Gross Domestic Product?
What are final goods and intermediate goods.
Why is agriculture an activity of unorganized sector in India.
Suggest any three public facilities need for the people.
What is Per Capita Income?
Mention any two limitations of Per Capita Income as an indicator of development.
Describe the adverse effects of caste in politics in India.
Suggest any three public facilities need for the people.
Explain the three components of Human Development Index.
What has been the role of NREGA in creating employment for the people in India?
Sustainability of development is most desirable Explain.
Examine any five features of federalism practiced in India.
Do you agree with the statement?
Explain reasons in support of your answer.
Explain the tertiary sector.
Why is this sector becoming important in India?
Describe any five public facilities needed for the development of a country.
Why did Tom wish he were sick?
Why did Sid rush downstairs?
What compensation did the removal of tooth bring to Tom.
What is meant by the word seized?
Write a story in 150 200 words based on the following outline.
Complete the paragraph given below by filling in the blanks with the help of options.
Rearrange the words given below to form meaningful sentences.
Read the extract given below and answer the questions that follow.
When did the speaker acquire this philosophy?
What pain has the speaker gone through?
What does the word inescapable mean?
How did the diary help Anne overcome her loneliness Discuss.
Write a detailed character sketch of Anne Frank.
Which gas is usually liberated when an acid reacts with a metal?
Why do we use copper and Aluminium wire for transmission of electric current?
Why not iron?
Write chemical equations for the reactions taking place when.
Write observation with reaction for the following.
Justify this statement giving chemical equation for reaction involved.
Which is the internal energy reserve in plants?
Also calculate current flowing when combination is connected to a 6V battery.
Which of the above observations of the student appears to be wrong and why?
How would reading of voltmeter change if it is connected between C and D?
Packets of potato chips are flushed with nitrogen gas why?
How does baking soda help to make cakes and bread soft and spongy.
List the raw materials used for the preparation of baking soda.
Write chemical equation for its preparation.
Which hormone is responsible for the changes noticed in males at puberty?
Deficiency of which hormone leads to dwarfism.
Name the hormone which is injected to a diabetic patient.
What is reflex arc?
Draw a neat diagram of a biogas plant and label.
Write difference between ammeter and voltmeter.
Write the name and formula of its ore.
What causes rusting of iron?
Why do we paint iron articles?
How is required pH maintained in the stomach and small intestine?       
Where was the first Indian Jute Mill set up?
Where did the big European Powers meet in 1885 for dividing Africa?
Name any one film made by Dada Saheb Fhalke.
Which relief feature of Indian has 30 percent of the total surface area of country?
which states has mostly laterite soil?
Which type of powers does the community government of Belgium enjoy?
What was the main objective of the Constitutional Amendment made in 1992 in India?
Write one merit of coalition government?
What is Majoritarianism? 1mark?
What is the share of mountains in the total land area?
Why did MNCs began to shift their production centres to Asian countries? 
What were its effects?
Why did women workers in Britain attack the Spinning Jenny?
Give any reasons.
Describe various steps which were taken to clean up London.
What are the three stages of resource planning in India?
Support the statement.
Explain any three factors responsible for the invention of new printing techniques.
Describe the growth of Hindi novels from their origin to the period of excellence.
What is manuscript?
Mention any two limitations of it, during nineteenth century.
Who wrote the novel Saraswativijayam ? 
Highlight any two messages given to the people through the novel.
What did Jawaharlal Nehru say about the dams and why?Explain.
Why is it essential to conserve and manage our water resources? 
Explain any three reasons.
what is bamboo drip irrigation? 
Mention any two features of it.
Describe any three features of Joint Forest Management.
Justify the statement. 
Give three main features of the soil found in the river deltas of the Indian coast?
Describe alluvial soil under the following heads:
Describe the tension that exixted between the Dutch and the French speaking people in Belgium.
Mention any four major threats to the population of tiger.
Explain the efforts made by the government to protect them.
What was Rinderpest? 
How did Rinderpest change the economy of the African Society?
Justify the statement with any four suitable argumants.
Why did the underground railway soon become a necessity in London ? 
Mention any three disadvantages in this system.
How does urbanization and urban life style lead to overexploitation of water resources?
Explain moral reasons to explain that Power sharing is desirable.
Explain the two types of soil erosion mostly observed in India. 
Mention different human activities responsible for soil erosion. 
Describe any five features of the caste system prevailing in India.
Explain the three factors that determine the outcome of politics of social divisions.
What role do the political leaders play in this area ? 
Describe any five public facilities needed for the development of a country. 
Identify this item with the help of following information. 
write its Correct name on the line marked on the map.
What type of soil is found in the Coastal area of Tamil Nadu?
In which state is Corbett National Park located ?
On which river, is Hirakud dam built?
Who wrote about the injustice of the caste system in Gulamgiri?
Which novel was written with adolescent girls in mind?
Name the largest artificial lake built in 11th century? 
Who initiated the Bhoodan-Gramdaan movement? 
What term is used for the number of girl children per 1000 boys? 
Which type of powers does the community government of Belgium enjoy? 
How much percent of the total volume of worlds water is estimated to exist as fresh water? 
Name a religious reformer who criticised the practices of the Roman Catholic Church?
Kabirlarai (Poetry contests) was patronised by merchant elite of which city?
Name the country which follows coming together style of federalism.
Explain the impact of the First World War on the British economy.
Describe the condition of the workers in nineteenth century in England?
Explain the three types of flows within the international economic exchanges.
What were guilds?
How did they make it difficult for new merchants to set business in towns of England?
What is the nature of the tree?
What are the moral values that we learn from the life of the tree?
Distinguish between individual resources and community owned resources. 
Give any three differences. 
Explain any three human acivities responsible for land degradation in India.
Explain the three steps involved in Resource Planning in India.
Highlight any three circumstances that led to the intermingling of the hearing culture and the reading culture.
How did the historical novels in India try to create a sense of Pan  Indian belonging?
Explain any three features of primitive subsistence agriculture in India?
Write a brief note an Project Tiger? 
How multipurpose river projects failed to achieve the purposes for which they were built? Explain. 
Mention the main features of Bhoodan  Gramdan movement started by Vinoba Bhave? 
Explain any three measures taken up by the government for conservation of fauna in India? 
Explain the statement.
How did the novels fulfil the task of nation building in India? Explain.
What was the contribution of print culture in the growth of nationalism in India?
How did the British attempt to check them? 
Summarize the main theme of the novel Oliver Twist by Charles Dicken.
Examine the role of new system of local governments in the Indian democratic set-up.
Highlight any two difficulties which it still faces.
What attracted the Europeans to Africa? 
Mention any three methods used to recruit and retain the African labourers.
Explain the process of industrialization in Britain during the nineteenth century.
How did people of different classes organize their new found leisure in England ? Explain.
Explain any five efforts made to popularize reading of books in Europe.
How did novel reading become a great source of pleasure in India ? Explain.
State the main elements of the power sharing model evolved in Belgium.
Describe any five traditional methods of rain water harvesting adopted in different parts on India.
What is secular state? 
How does the constitution of India ensure that India remains a secular state? Explain.
Identify this item with the help of following information.
write its Correct name on the line marked on the map. 
What type of soil is found in Bihar ?
In which state is Periyar Tiger Reserve located ?
In which state is salal dam located ?
Name any two countries with which Belgium has borders?
From where did most of the Indian Indentured Workers come from? 
In which year did the first cotton mill in Bomby(Mumbai) come up?
Which city is known as the city of dreams?
When did the first printing press come to India? 
What was the title of the first modern novel published in Malayalam?
What is the official post for the chairperson of a Municipal Corporation?
Which term is used for a country which allows its people to follow any religion?
How can development goals of different sections of our society can be achieved?
In which country the participation of women in pubic life is very high?
List out the reasons for the grouth of Civil Right Movement in America. 
Why is combination of politics and social divisions considered very dangerous and explosive? 
Explain with suitable examples. 
How did Gutenberg personalise the printed books?Explain. 
How the problem of being modern without losing ones identity was solved by the main character of the novel Indulekha?
Explain Rubber Cultivation in India under the following heads: 
Highlight any three circumstances that led to the intermingling of the hearing culture and the reading culture.
Who was Rokeya Hossien ? 
What message did she convey through her writings ?
Explain any three methods of rainwater harvesting?
How are social differences not always an  accident of birth? 
Why are most of the countries of the world emerging as multi-cultured countries?
How has irrigation changed the cropping pattern in many regions of India? 
Explain with the help of examples.
Explain the contribution of print to the spread of knowledge. 
Name the first novel written by Bankim Chandra Chattopadhyaya. 
Explain his contribution to the Bengali novel.
Explain any three effects of the Great Depression of 1929 on the United States.
Describe the contributions of Dwarakanath Tagore as an entrepreneur of Bengal.
Explain the statement.
Explain the statement briefly.
Explain any three reasons.
Explain the benefits of London Tube railway for the population in the city.
Why is it said that money cannot buy all the goods and services that one needs to live well? 
Explain the vertical division of power giving example from India. 
Mention any three main features which make India a federal country. 
Discuss the factors that led to the end of Bretton Woods System and the beginning of globalization.
How did the First world war proved to be a boon to Indian Industries? Explain.
Describe five form of entertainment that came up in the 19th century England.
What was the attitude of liberal and conservative people towards women in India?
How did women like Kailash Bashini Debi respond? 
Explain any five features of novels written for the young in the last stage of nineteenth century.
Describe the social and economic effects of the World Wars on England and USA.
Why was a jobber employed? How did jobber misuse his position and power?Explain.
Justify the statement giving any five suitable arguments.
Explain any five efforts made to popularize reading of books in Europe. 5marks
Describe the effects of the Great Depression of 1929 on the United States.
How did the colonial economic policies affect the weaving industry in India between 18th and 19th century ? Explain
Describe any five features of land reclamation in Bombay (Mumbai).
What was the Reading Mania? Explain its impact or children, women and workers.
Explain the main features of novels written by Munshi Premchand.
Why did the makers of our Constitution declare India to be a Union of States?
Why were some sub-political units of Indian given a special status? 
Describe the impact of print culture on Indian women. 
Support your answer with suitable examples.
Identify these features with the help of following information.
write their correct names on the lines market on the map.
Where has the government of India Implemented the right to work? 
Which economic sector has the highest share in GDP In 2003? 
What does Overlapping difference signify?
On Which factor communalism is based on? 
Who adopted the assembly line production of cars?
Which was the first country to undergo industrial revolution?
Between whom the first section of the underground railway in the world was opened?
What is the literacy rate among Indian women? 
What is the technical term used for diversion channels of the Western Himalayas?
which are grown with the onset of monsoons and are harvested in the months of September  October are known as?
What is meant by Trade Surplus? 
Why did Britain have a trade surplus with India?
How do you agree with this statement ?
Explain any three points?
Why did public transport become necessary in England by the Mid 20th century?
Give three reasons.
Taking the example of Carlos, Smith and Norman, explain how social differences divide similar people form one another but also unite very different people.
Why do some people think that it is not correct to politicize social division?
Give three reason. 
Support the statement with three facts.
State three reasons why did Europeans flee to America in 19th century.
The old ports of Surat and Hoogly declilned by the end of the 18th century. Why ?
Explain any three reasons.
Social divisions exist in most of the countries. Explain.
Describe any three public facilities needed for the people. 3marks
Explain the process of decision marking in your family. Is it democratic? Explain.
Justify the statement with an examples. 
Explain any three reasons for the conflicts between the Catholics and the Protestants in Northern Ireland.
Suggest any two measures to check the social divisions
Explain with examples the two bases for the origin of social differences. 3marks
Compare overlapping and cross cutting of social differences with one example each.
What lessons have been learnt from the Civil Rights Movement of Martin Luther king in the USA? 
What have been the consequences of the political expression of gender division in free India? 
What is the status of womens representation in Indias legislative bodies?
In what way did print affect the reformers? Explain with example.
Explain the different ways in which the novel in India attempted to create a sense of Pan-Indian Belonging.
What is development? 
What are the indicators used by UNDP for measuring development? 
Compare it with the World Bank report. 
Explain any five factors responsible for the formation of soil. 
What provisions have been made in the Constitution of India to make it a Secular State ? Describe. 
Support the statement by giving three points of difference.
Explain the statement.
Which country is an example of coming together type of federation? 
According to the World Development Report 2006, what is the Capita income of the low income countries in 2004? 
Which previous knowledge did Gutenberg drew to design his innovation in the form of a printing press? 
Which qualities of young girls, expected at her time, have not been shown in the novel Jan Eyre written by Charlotte Bronte ?
Define average income? 
Where is the disguised unemployment found mostly?
Which problem of the society was focused in the novel Hard Times written by Charles Dickens? 
Name the book by Kashi Baba that had detailed the experiences of poor workers in India.
Which is the most correct way of measuring a countrys development? 1 mark
How do big private companies contribute in the development of a nation?
How can the workers in the unorganized sector be protected? Explain. 
What is Per Capita Income? 
Mention any two limitations of Per Capita Income as an indicator of development.
Describe the adverse effects of caste in politics in India.
What are final goods and intermediate goods? 
How do they help in calculating Gross Domestic Product (G.D.P)? 
Why is agriculture an activity of unorganized sector in India? Explain. 
Suggest any three public facilities need for the people? 
Explain the three components of Human Development Index. 
Explain inferences which have been drawn by comparing the development levels of Punjab, Kerala and Bihar.
Support the statement. 
Explain the concept of underemployment in the urban areas with the help of examples.
What has been the role of NREGA in creating employment for the people in India ?
Explain. 
Sustainability of development is most desirable'. Explain?
Justify the statement.
Explain measures that can be adopted to remove disguised unemployment in the agriculture sector. 
Examine any five features of federalism practiced in India. 
What is GDP? 
Assess the contribution of secondary and tertiary sectors to the GDP of India? 
Workers are not exploited in organized sector. Do you agree with the statement?
Explain reasons in support of your answer.
Explain the tertiary sector? 
Why is this sector becoming important in India? 
Give four reasons. 
Describe any five public facilities needed for the development of a country.
Explain the above statement on the basis of facts. 
Compare the employment conditions prevailing in the organized and the unorganized sectors. 
Identify these features with the help of following information.
write their correct names on the lines market on the map.
On the same political map of India, Locate and label Rihand.
complete the sentences that follow
Fill in the blanks
Why did Tom wish he were sick?
Why did Sid rush downstairs?
Why did Aunt Polly thrust a chunk of fire into Tom's face?
What compensation did the removal of tooth bring to Tom?
What is meant by the word, "outrageousness"?
What is meant by the word "seized"?
Find the word opposite in meaning to "pull"?
Find the phrase opposite in meaning to "wended to"?
Write a story in 150-200 words based on the following outline
Complete the story in 150-200 words which begins as the following
Complete the paragraph given below by filling in the blanks with the help of options that follow
Write the error and its correction as shown in the example.
Rearrange the words/phrases given below to form meaningful sentences.
Read the extract given below and answer the questions that follow
Why was the frog puffed up with rage ?
Give the opposite of "Brainless" ?
What happened when the nightingale puffed up her lungs ?
What did the villagers do to help Mrs. Packletide realize her ambition to kill a tiger?
Why does Mrs Slater ask Victoria to go upstairs? How does Vicky react ?
What is more powerful than "marble" and "gilded monuments"?
How can we compare the Mirror to God?
How did the diary help Anne overcome her loneliness ?
Write a detailed charactersketch of Anne Frank .
What happens when is heated in the absence of air?
Give the relevant equation.
Which gas is usually liberated when an acid reacts with a metal?
Thermal power plants are setup near coal or oil fields. Give reason.
Why do we use copper and Aluminium wire for transmission of electric current ?
Why not iron?
Write chemical equations for the reactions taking place when
Write observation with reaction for the following
Justify this statement giving the chemical equation for the reaction involved.
Write the name of reaction involved.
Which is the internal energy reserve in plants? Do the animals have the same energy reserve ? 
Justify your answer.
Differentiate between renewable and non-renewable sources of energy with one example for each.
Calculate the effective resistance when they are connected in series.
calculate the current flowing when the combination is connected to a 6V battery
Which of the above observations of the student appears to be wrong and why ?
How would the reading of voltmeter (V) change if it is connected between C and D ?
Packets of potato chips are flushed with nitrogen gas, why?
What happens when we add water to the salt which is obtained after heating?
write its formula.
How does baking soda help to make cakes and bread soft and spongy?
List the raw materials used for the preparation of baking soda.
Write chemical equation for its preparation.
Which hormone is responsible for the changes noticed in males at puberty?
Deficiency of which hormone leads to dwarfism.
Name the hormone which is injected to a diabetic patient.
What is reflex arc?
How do muscle cells move?
Draw a neat diagram of a biogas plant and label
Which graph represents the series combination of the other two? Give reason.
Write difference between ammeter and voltmeter.
Name the metal which is low in activity series and exists as liquid at room temperature.
Write the name and formula of its ore.
How is the metal extracted from this ore ?
Write the chemical equation for the reaction involved.
What causes rusting of iron ? Design an activity to show the conditions needed for iron nails to rust.
Why do we paint iron articles ?
Draw a neat diagram of excretory system of human beings and label the following
How is urine produced.
Name two excretory products other than and in plants.
Draw diagram to show the nutrition in amoeba and label the part used for this purpose. 
Mention any other purpose served by this part other than nutrition.
Name the glands associated with digestion of starch in human digestive tract mention their role.
How is required pH maintained in the stomach and small intestine?
What will happen if a bar magnet is?
Name the above phenomenon and mention the name of the scientist who discovered it. 
State the law that relates the direction of current in the coil with the direction of motion of the magnet.
Name the law used to find the direction of magnetic field.
Draw a diagram to represent a uniform magnetic field in a given region.
List two properties of magnetic field lines.
Name the enzyme present in saliva. 
Why is it important?
What is emulsification?
Name the substance that is oxidized in the body during respiration.
Why are lungs divided into very small sac-like structures?
Draw a neat diagram of human respiratory system and label the parts and label 9 parts in it.
What are the end products of digestion of fat and protein in human beings?
Which of the following is the correct method to connect the ammeter and voltmeter with resistance in the circuit to verify the Ohms law?
Which country is an example of coming together type of federation?
According to the World Development Report 2006, what is the Capita income of the low income countries in 2004?
Which previous knowledge did Gutenberg drew to design his innovation in the form of a printing press?
Which qualities of young girls, expected at her time, have not been shown in the novel Jan Eyre written by Charlotte Bronte ?
Define average income?
Where is the disguised unemployment found mostly?
Which problem of the society was focused in the novel Hard Times written by Charles Dickens?
Name the book by Kashi Baba that had detailed the experiences of poor workers in India.
Which is the most correct way of measuring a countrys development?
How do big private companies contribute in the development of a nation?
How can the workers in the unorganized sector be protected? Explain.
What is Per Capita Income? 
Mention any two limitations of Per Capita Income as an indicator of development.
Describe the adverse effects of caste in politics in India.
What are final goods and intermediate goods? 
How do they help in calculating Gross Domestic Product (G.D.P)?
Why is agriculture an activity of unorganized sector in India? Explain.
Suggest any three public facilities need for the people?
Explain the three components of Human Development Index.
Explain inferences which have been drawn by comparing the development levels of Punjab, Kerala and Bihar.
Explain the concept of underemployment in the urban areas with the help of examples.
What has been the role of NREGA in creating employment for the people in India ?Explain.
Justify the statement.
Explain measures that can be adopted to remove disguised unemployment in the agriculture sector.
Examine any five features of federalism practiced in India.
What is GDP?
Do you agree with the statement?
Explain reasons in support of your answer.
Explain the tertiary sector? 
Why is this sector becoming important in India? 
Give four reasons.
Describe any five public facilities needed for the development of a country.
Explain the above statement on the basis of facts.
Compare the employment conditions prevailing in the organized and the unorganized sectors.
What is Freezedrying?
What is Dioxane?
Expand: ICMR, DPX, STEM & PAS.
Differentiate Biopsy and Autopsy.
Comment on Photomicrography.
What is Keratin?
Differentiate Mordant and Lake?
What is Vital staining?
Distinguish between Honing and stropping.
Define Metachromasia?
Give an account of Ultramicrotomy.
Describe the Procedure adopted in the Dry Mount of insects.
Classify Proteins and give an account of Ninhydrin Schiff Method.
Give an account on Cryostat and its advantages. 
Describe the Procedure involved in extraction and mounting of soil microarthropods.
Explain the identification and extraction of DNA by Feuigen Nuclear Reaction and Brach Method.
What is Autoradiography and explain its applications in biology.
Explain the working principle of SEM and its sample preparation.
Describe the different steps involved in Paraffin Microtomy.
Write short notes on.
Draw the Architecture of a typical Unix Kernel. Explain the various Subsystems in the Kernel.
What are the different types of threads? Explain -them clearly. 
What type of threads are defined by pthreads library? 
Explain briefly the purpose of following functions: a) pthread_mutex_lock0 b) pthread join( pthread_cond_wait() d) pthread_cond_signal0 
Which scheduler would you -''choose? 
Describe the scheduler which you would select. 
Justify the reason for selecting given scheduler. 
What are the functions of Memory Manager? 
Specify the different types of Memory found in a computer. 
Draw the Memory Management Unit (MMU) of 80386 CPU. 
Show clearly the Segmentation part and Paging part. 
Briefly describe the overall working of this MMU. 
Find the number of page faults that would our in case of following Page Replacement schemes a) FIFO b) LRU c) Optimal . 
What is a Dead Lock? 
Explain the conditions for Dead Lock. 
What is a Semaphore? 
What for it is used? 
Show how a particular problem can be solved by using Semaphores. 
Explain clearly how Peterson's Algorithm works. 
What is the significance of Dekker's and Peterson's Algorithm?  
Explain the different Page Replacement techniques. 
Illustrate with a concrete example. 
Explain the Round Robin method with multilevel feedback for scheduling of processes. 
Compare this method with FIFO scheduler. 
Enlist the different performance criteria which characterize the behavior of a scheduler. 
Write a program to create parent and child process. 
Show which one is parent and child process. 
describe in detail how process is created in Unix operating system. 
Draw the state transition diagram of Linux Process. 
Explain the various states in it. 
Why it is necessary to study state transition diagram? 
Explain what do we mean by RAID. 
Describe the different RAID techniques. 
Explain the Hardware Approaches to Mutual Exclusion. 
Compare user level and kernel level threads. 
Compare and contrast Reader -Writer problem with Producer-Consumer problem. 
Write the necessary algorithms. 
Draw the Memory management Unit of 80386 CPU. 
Illustrate it clearly showing different blocks and fields. 
Describe the necessary and sufficient conditions for Deadlock. 
Show how mutual exclusion can be achieved using semaphores. 
Draw the Architecture of a typical OS Kernel.
Show the different components of Modern  Operating System. 
Draw the 9 state transition diagram of Process. 
Modify the diagram to show that the processes are non-preemptive. 
Describe the fair share scheduling technique. 
Show what changes were made in traditional Unix scheduler to incorporate this technique. 
Show the similarities and differences with Unix SVR4 scheduler. 
Explain the concept of Process and Thread. 
Name the different fields in a Process Control Block. 
Write the properties of a Thread. 
Explain how Memory Management is done in a typical modern Kernel.  
What are the different Disk scheduling algorithms? 
Explain the performance of following scheduling algorithms using the example- 
Explain what do we mean by a Process. 
Describe the different fields in a Process Control Block. 
Draw the state transition diagrath of a typical Unix Process. 
Explain the meaning of Kernel Mode & User Mode. 
Write a program demonstrating the use of threads. 
Write the complete command to compile it. 
What is the output of following programs? 
Write a shell script to perform bubble sort for arranging the numbers in ascending order.  
Give one example each fbr using following commands:
Write a program to create process.  
Draw the Architecture of kernel of an operating system. 
Enlist the functions available in pthreads library. 
Describe in short the use of these functions. 
Write a program to create a thread. 
Write a shell script showing how a function is defined and used.  
Give one line examples for the following commands: 
Draw tne Memory Management Unit of 80386 microprocessor. 
Describe the functions of each block. 
What are the different Page Replacement techniques? 
Explain the perfwmance of these techniques U--by giving an example. 
Describe the hardware used in a typical modern personal computer by giving specifications of PU used, different types of Memory, Network Cards, Sound Card etc. 
What is the use of Cache Memory? 
What do we mean by PCI? 
Explain the Round Robin method for scheduling. 
Describe the changes made to above technique k-7 for improving,its performance. 
Describe the issues involved in Multiprocessor scheduling. 
Explain the Dekker's algorithm. 
Explain clearly where Dekker's algorithm can be used. 
Briefly define the different RAID levels. 
Describe the data structure used in a semaphore. 
What different operations can be done on a semaphore? 
Illustrate by giving an examplo-the usage ofseinaphore.
Enlist the different Page Replacement Techniques. 
Explain any one technique in detail with some example. 
Draw the block diagram of Round Robin with multilevel feedback scheduling mechanism. 
Explain the different components in it. 
Draw the block diagram of a typical OS kernel. 
Explain the different subsystems in it. 
What is Dead Lock? 
Explain the necessary and sufficient conditions for Dead Look to occur. 
What is rviutual Exclusion? 
How is Mutual Exclusion achieved using I lardwarc a,-oproach? 
Write a program to demonstrate the use of threads. 
Draw and explain the state model of Linux Process. 
How is it different from Unix Process model? 
Write a program to create a parent and child process. 
Show which one is parent and which one is child.  
Draw the block diagram of MMU of 80x86 CPU. 
Explain how it is useful. 
Explain what do we mean by a Process. 
Describe the different parts in a typical PCB. 
Enlist the different Page Replacement Techniques. 
Explain any one technique in detail with some example. 
Draw the block diagram of Round Robin with multilevel feedback scheduling mechanism. 
Explain the different components in it. 
Draw the block diagram of a typical OS kernel. 
Explain the different subsystems in it. 
What is Dead Lock? 
Explain the necessary and sufficient conditions for Dead Look to occur. 
What is mutual Exclusion? 
How is Mutual Exclusion achieved using hardware approach? 
Write a program to demonstrate the use of threads. 
Draw and explain the state model of Linux Process. 
How is it different from Unix Process model?
Write a program to create a parent and child process. 
Show which one is parent and which one is  child. 
Draw the block diagram of MMU of 80x86 CPU. 
Explain how it is useful. 
Explain what do we mean by a Process. 
Draw & explain the State Transition Diagram of a Unix process. 
Explain clearly when these states can occur. 
Using pthreads, write a program to compute the average of numbers stored in an array. 
Write the command to compile and run the above program. 
Write a summary on the actual functions of Memory Manager. You may draw the required diagram .
Differentiate between User level threads and Kernel level threads. 
What type of threads are used in Linux? 
Draw the functional block diagram of a typical PC Motherboard. 
Write the specifications of a recent computer that you would like to buy. 
Justify those specifications.
Draw the state transition diagram of a Unix Process. 
In which states a process is likely to spend  most of its time? 
Explain in brief the how process is created. 
Write a small program to create a child process. 
Show clearly the parent part and child part. 
Find the number of page faults that would occur in case of following Page Replacement schemes. 
Draw the Memory Management Unit (MMU) of 80386 CPU. 
Show clearly the Segmentation part  and Paging part. 
Show the different fields of Page Table Entry. 
Consider the scheduling problem of three processes P1 , P2 , P3 with their CPU burst times ( in milli seconds) as 30 , 6, 8 respectively.
Find the waiting time, turn around time and response time for each process. 
What do we mean by Dead Lock? 
Explain the conditions for Dead Lock. 
Explain the term Semaphore. 
Show how mutual exclusion can be achieved using Semaphores. 
Explain Dekker's Algorithm . 
What is the significance of Dekker's and Peterson's Algorithm? 
Draw the block diagram of a Memory manager . 
Show clearly the blocks and the corresponding algorithms used. 
Aplain in brief. the concept of Virtual File System. 
Name different file systems available in Linux. 
Draw the Proc slate Model of Linux process. 
Explain the functions of Memory Manager. 
Briefly describe the techniques for Replacement of Pages. 
Explain in brief how process is created. 
What is the role of process control block ? 
What is deadlock?
What are the conditions for deadlock to occur? 
What is a semaphore? 
Explain how semaphore can be used to solve concurrency problem. 
Describe the round-robin method for scheduling. 
Explain the different enhancements that can be applied to round-robin method. 
What is Dekker's algorithm? 
Where is it used? 
Write the algorithm. 
What are the cases in which this algorithm can be applied? 
Draw the diagram of 80386 Memory Management Unit. 
Briefly describe the various blocks in it. 
Explain the architecture of a typical Kernel. 
Write a program to show how pthread_cond_wait( ) and pthread_cond_signal( ) can be used. 
What is mutual exclusion? 
Explain hardware approaches for mutual exclusion. 
Explain what do we mean by a Process. 
Describe the different fields of a Process Control Block. 
Draw the block diagram of a typical Unix kernel. 
Write a brief description about the kernel. 
Explain the meaning of Kernel Mode & User Mode. 
Write a program demonstrating the use of pthreads . 
Write the complete command to compile it. 
What is the output of following programs? 
What do we mean by PCI? 
Draw the simple functional block diagram of a NUMA hardware. 
Draw the simple functional block diagram of a SMP hardware. 
What is TLS? 
What is the speed of a typical Ethernet card? 
What are the different types of cache memory. 
Explain what do we mean by process. 
Describe the different fields in a process control lock o 
Write a program to create child process. 
Show explicitly the parent and child part. 
Draw the Memory Layout of a process. 
Briefly explain this layout. 
Enlist the different control statements used in shell scripts along with proper syntax. 
What different shells are available in Linux? 
Write a program to create 10 threads. 
Write the command to compile and run the program. 
Explain in short the meaning of Deadlock. 
What are the different conditions for Deadlock to occur? 
Explain them in brief. 
What are semaphores? 
Explain the role of semaphores in concurrent problems by an example. 
Explain what do we mean by a process. 
What are the different fields in a Linux PCB? 
Explain some of these fields. 
Draw the architecture of a typical-kernel. 
Explain the role of different subsystems in Kernel. 
Show the Paging scheme used in 386 CPU. 
draw the diagram of Segmentation mechanism. 
Discuss the relevance of Peterson's algorithm. 
Also explain in brief the same algorithm. 
What are the different types of threads in an Operating system? Draw the necessary diagrams. 
What threads would you prefer in your applications? 
Give reasons . 
Explain how Unix SVR4 scheduler works. 
Name the different criteria for characterizing the behavior of process schedulers. 
Briefly describe the Hardware methods for achieying Mutual Exclusion. 
Explain in brief the RAID techniques. 
explain scenario where RAID is used.
find the waiting time, turn arou ime and response time for each process. 
Draw state transition diagram of a Unix process. 
draw the state diagram of Linux process. 
Write a program using N threads to compute the sum of numbers in an array. 
Write the complete command. 
What type of threads are available in Linux?  
What is the output of following script? 
Write a one line script to search for a directory occupying maximum disk space. 
What is priority inversion? 
What solution is provided for circumventing priority inversion? 
Draw the functional block diagram of SMP , NUMA , Multicore Hardware . 
Which of the following numbers has terminating decimal expansion?
Write the above distribution as less than type cumulative frequency distribution.
Find the missing frequency x3marks.
Without using trigonometric tables, evaluate the following.
Which of the following is not a rational number?
Find the length of an altitude of an equilateral triangle of side 2 cm.
Find the value p.
Find the mean of the following frequency distribution, using step-deviation method.
Find the mode of the following frequency distribution
calculate the median.
find the coordinates of the points where the lines meet the z-axis.
Prove that ratio of areas of triangles is equal to ratio of squares of corresponding sides
State and prove the converse of the following theorem
If the median of the following data is 32.5, find the missing frequencies.
Draw a less than type ogive for the given data.
obtain the median weight from graph and verify result by using formula.
Which of the following numbers has terminating decimal expansion?
Find the mode length of the leaves.
Find the mode.
Prove that in a right angle triangle, square of hypotenuse is equal to sum of squares of other two sides.
Name the hormone that controls the rate of respiration. 
name the part of brain responsible for controlling respiration.
Why is it advised not to use copper or brass vessels to store pickles or curd? 
which is having more resistance: A 100 W bulb or a 60 W bulb?
Write the balance chemical equation for the chemical reaction between Manganese dioxide and Aluminum powder. 
What happens if Manganese powder is heated with Aluminum oxide?
What is the name of the powder? What are the main ingredients in it? 
What are the functions of each ingredient?
Write any two causes that may damage the kidney of a person.
Explain the significance of peristaltic movement that occurs all along the gut during digestion.
Which one is more efficient? 
Give reason for your answer. 
State one more use of concave mirror.
State the law that relates current through a conductor and the potential difference between its ends. 
Represent the law mathematically. 
Represent graphically, the variation of current I as a function of potential difference V.
Which ammeter A1 or A2 will indicate higher reading for current? 
Give reason.
Which of the two observations is correct and why? 
What is resistance of a conductor due to?
Name the substance 'X' and write its formula.
Write the reaction of the substance 'X' named in (i) above with water.
Write the balanced equation for the following chemical reaction:
What is the main ore of mercury? 
Explain, how mercury is obtained from this ore?
write the reaction involved in the extraction. 
Define 'water of crystallization'.
Give two examples of substances having water of crystallization. 
Write their chemical formula.
Using a simple experiment, how can you prove that Magnesium is placed above Zinc in the reactivity series?
Why copper metal cannot liberate Hydrogen when reacting with dil. HCl?
Draw a diagram of human brain and label any four parts. 
Write one function each of any two parts.
What is chemotropism? 
Give one example. 
Name any two plant hormones and mention their functions.
Write one feature which is common to each of the following pairs of terms:
What can be the reason behind it?
what will you recommend these students? 
what precautions you will insist them? 
Calculate the power consumed in the combination of resistor in the two cases and ratio of the power consumed incombination of resistor.
Which sort of connection is preferable in house hold circuits? 
Give one reason.
Suggest the probable method of resistor combination and the corresponding current.
Name the process by which sodium hydroxide is prepared from sodium Chloride?
Why it is called so process and write down the balanced chemical equation.
What will be the pH of the following salts?
Why does he shift the pH of the fresh milk from 6 to slightly alkaline?
Why does this milk take a long time to set as curd?
What is a neutralization reaction? Give two examples.
What are amphoteric oxides? 
Give two examples.
Metals such as Sodium and Potassium are kept immersed is Kerosene, why?
Give the balanced chemical equation for the reaction between Al and steam.
Name a non metal.
Which is a liquid at room temperature?
Which is lustrous?
What are the main two allotropes of carbon? 
Distinguish these two allotropes on basis of hardness and electrical conduction.
Why Aluminium articles have a longer life and attractive finish compared to many other metals?
Explain the following terms
What is common feature in the electronic configuration of metal atom?
Draw diagram of human alimentary canal and label the following 
Mention the role of hydrochloric acid in the stomach.
What function is served by the following:
Draw a diagram of respiratory system and label any four parts of it.
What are alveoli? 
Mention their role in respiration.
Briefly explain an activity to plot the magnetic field lines around a straight current carrying conductor. 
Sketch the field pattern for the same, specifying current and field directions.
What happens to this field If the strength of the current is decreased?
Briefly explain an activity to plot the.
Sketch the field pattern for the same specifying field directions.
Which region has stronger field? 
Give reason to support your answer.
What is the least count of the following voltmeter?
In which one of the above a positive test for presence of starch would be obtained?
Which one of the following is the correct sequence of steps for focusing the slide under high power?
Define the term rancidity.
What is meant by the statement that the potential difference between two points is 1 volt?
List two practical uses of biogas in rural areas.
Burning of candle is accompanied by both physical and chemical change. 
Mention the observations which help to deduce that both physical and chemical changes are taking place.
find the equivalent resistance of the circuit.
Identify the poles of the magnet in the given figure (1) and (2).
What are villi? 
What is their function? 
What happens when copper is burned in air? 
Give the equation. 
What type of a reaction is it?
What happens when hydrogen gas is passed over the product obtained in step above? 
Give the equation also.
Complete the following reactions and write the balanced equations:
Write the chemical name and formula of "Plaster of Paris".
How is it prepared?
Write chemical equations of the reaction.
identify the nature of the solutions in three test tubes?
What will happen to the glow of other two bulbs if the bulb  gets fused?
how much reading will the ammeter A show when all the three bulb glow simultaneously?
Find the total resistance of the circuit.
What type of energy is possessed by the stored water?
What is the energy transformation that takes place in hydroelectric power plant?
What values of the people are shown by this act?
Name the physical quantity which is (i) same (ii) different, in all the bulbs when three bulbs of:
How will the magnetic field produced at a point due to a current carrying circular coil change if we:
Give a reason to explain why:
State the law that relates potential difference across a conductor with the current flowing through it.
Why is it not possible to make use of solar cells to meet all our energy needs? 
State at least three reasons to support your answer.
Write the chemical name and formula of washing soda. 
How is it prepared? 
Write the chemical equation of the reaction.
Why does distilled water not conduct electricity, whereas rain water does?
In which test tube will the fizzing occur more vigorously and why?
Name the metal E.
Write the chemical equation for the reaction when it is exposed to air and when the product is dissolved in water.
Explain the process by which the metal is obtained from its molten chloride.
What are alloys? 
How are they made? Name the constituents and uses of brass, bronze and solder.
What is a solenoid? 
Draw the patterns of magnetic field lines of a solenoid through.
which a steady current flows? 
What does the pattern of field lines inside the solenoid indicate? 
Write a use of it.
State the rule to determine the direction of
Name two safety measures commonly used in domestic electric circuits and appliances.
Draw diagram of human alimentary canal and label the following:
Mention the role of hydrochloric acid in the stomach.
What function is served by the following:
Draw a neat diagram of excretory system of human beings and label the following:
How is urine produced?
Name two excretory products other than in plants. 
Why should we use iodized salt in our diet?
If iodine is insufficient in one's diet, what might be the deficiency disease?
How does feedback mechanism regulate the hormone secretion?
Which plant hormone is present in greater concentration in the areas of rapid cell division?
Give one example of a plant growth promoter and a plant growth inhibitor
What is the role of plant hormone 'cytokinins'?
Which of the statements about the reaction below are incorrect?
Which one of the following cannot be used to find the pH of a solution? 
Which one of the following statements will be true for this circuit? 
Which one of the following is correct  if one increases the number of cells in the given circuit?
In which one of the above a positive test for presence of starch would be obtained?
Why decomposition reactions are called the opposite of combination reactions? 1mark
What happens to the resistance of a conductor when its area of cross-section is increased?
What is tidal energy? 
Write the chemical reaction involved 
mention the type of the chemical reaction? 
Explain briefly two methods of producing induced current.
What are the two vital functions of the human kidneys? 
Explain why:
What happens when a strip of lead metal is placed in a solution of copper chloride?
Write the balanced chemical equation for the reaction along with the colour changes observed during the reaction.
What are precipitation reactions? Give one example of precipitation reaction.
Name the substance 'X' and write its formula.
Write the reaction of the substance 'X' named in (i) above with water.
Write the balanced equation for the following chemical reaction:
Do you agree with this statement? 
Why should we avoid eating fruits and vegetables without washing them properly? 
What values do you get from this? 
Describe the use of aluminium as reducing agent for reduction of metal oxides. 
Give the equations involved. 
Find the current in 3 resistor.
Charcoal is a better fuel than wood. Why? 
How does biogas plant help to reduce the problem of pollution?
Name the law that is involved in the experiment and write its mathematical form.
Which graph represents the series combination of the other two?
Mention the factors on which the direction of force experienced by a current carrying conductor placed in a magnetic field depend. 
Under what condition is the force experienced by a current carrying conductor placed in a magnetic field maximum?
What force is acting on proton beam?
How are involuntary actions different from reflex actions? 
Which ammeter    will indicate higher reading for current? Give reason
List any three hazards of nuclear waste.
Identify the chemical compound.
Write the chemical formula.
Write chemical equation for preparing it.
Write its any two uses.
Write an equation to show the reaction between Plaster of Paris and water.
Name the substance which on treatment with chlorine yields bleaching powder.
Name the sodium compound which is used for softening hard water.
What will happen if a solution of sodium hydrogen carbonate is heated? 
Give the equation of the reaction involved.
Define corrosion. 
Name a metal which corrodes and one metal which does not.
Write any three methods of prevention of corrosion.
Write balanced chemical equation for the reactions taking place when:
Briefly explain an activity to plot the magnetic field lines around a straight current carrying conductor. 
Sketch the field pattern for the same, specifying current and field directions. 
What happens to this field? 
Briefly explain an activity to plot the magnetic field lines around a bar magnet.
Sketch the field pattern for the same specifying field directions. 
Which region has stronger field? 
Give reason to support your answer.
Draw diagram of respiratory system and label the following: 
What are alveoli? Mention their role in respiration.
Differentiate between aerobic and anaerobic respiration.
Draw a sectional view of the human heart and label on it the following parts:
Why is double circulation of blood necessary in human beings?
Mention any three important functions of fore brain.
What are the functions of spinal cord?
Draw the structure of a neuron and label the following on it:
Name the part of neuron.
Which one is correct?
Which of the following experimental set up is correct for verification of Ohm's law?
which of the circuit diagrams show the correct way of connecting thev voltmeter?
Which of the following stain is used to see the stomata during temporary mount of leaf peel?
State the effect of a magnetic field on the path of a moving charged particle.
Which system facilitates the communication between central nervous system and other parts of the body? 
Write the characteristic features of the micro organisms which help in the production of biogas in a biogas plant.
Explain why it is so advised ?
Name first discovered alloy. 
Give its composition also.
Find their equivalent resistant.
State how the magnetic field produced by a straight current carrying conductor at a point depends on. 
Write balanced chemical equations for the following chemical reactions
Identify the compound P.
How does it undergo damage due to eating chocolate and sweets ? 
What should we do to prevent tooth decay ?
Identify metal X.
How will you convert this carbonate into its oxide? Name the process and write its equation.
Define alternating current and direct current. 
Explain why alternating current is preferred over direct current for transmission over long distances.
Find the current drawn from the supply line. 
Justify this statement.
Mention the usual current rating of the fuse wire in the line.
List in tabular form three differences between arteries and veins.
How do auxins help in bending of stem towards light? Explain.
What are nephrons ? 
How is nephron involved in the filtration of blood and formation of urine ? 
Explain the principle and process of converting ocean thermal energy into electricity
Mention the values exhibited by shyam.
Explain how these values helped shyam to save interests of his village.
Write down the electronic configuration of Magnesium and Oxygen.
Give two general properties of the compound formed by combination of magnesium and oxygen.
Show the formation of this compound by the transfer of electrons. 
Name and describe giving chemical equation the process used for producing sodium hydroxide. 
Why is this process so named ?
Give one use of each of any two products obtained in this process. 
If the radius of a current carrying conductor is halved, how does current through it change ?
Define resistance of a conductor. 
State the factors on which resistance of a conductor depends. 
Name the device which is often used to change the resistance without changing the voltage source in an electric circuit. 
Calculate the resistance of 50 m length of wire of cross sectional area 0.01 square mm and of resistivity. 
Describe the process of starch digestion.
Draw the structure of human digestive system and label.
For which sample pH value will be 7?
What will be the pH of a basic solution? 
Which gas is evolved in the reaction of Zinc metal and NaOH? 
Name the scientist who proposed acid- Base theory .
Name the gas evolved when Zinc metal reacts with HCl acid. 
What is the important property of an acid? 
Other than light, what else is necessary for photosynthesis? 
What happens when is heated in the absence of air? 
Give the relevant equation. 
Which gas is usually liberated when an acid reacts with a metal?  
Why do we use copper and Aluminium wire for transmission of electric current ?
Why not iron? 
Write chemical equations for the reactions taking place when :
Write observation with reaction for the following : Granulated zinc reacts with dil.sulphuric acid.
Justify this statement giving the chemical equation for the reaction involved. 
Write the name of reaction involved. 
Which is the internal energy reserve in plants? 
Do the animals have the same energy reserve ? 
Justify your answer. 
Differentiate between renewable and non-renewable sources of energy with one example for each. 
Calculate the effective resistance when they are connected in series.
calculate the current flowing when the combination is connected to a 6V battery 
Which of the above observations of the student appears to be wrong and why ?
How would the reading of voltmeter (V) change if it is connected between C and D ?
Justify your answer. 
Identify the substance oxidized, substance reduced, oxidizing agent and reducing agent in the following reaction: 
Packets of potato chips are flushed with nitrogen gas, why? 
Give reason for the above observation.
What happens when we add water to the salt which is obtained after heating? 
write its formula. 
How does baking soda help to make cakes and bread soft and spongy?
List the raw materials used for the preparation of baking soda.
Write chemical equation for its preparation. 
Which hormone is responsible for the changes noticed in males at puberty?
Deficiency of which hormone leads to dwarfism.
Name the hormone which is injected to a diabetic patient. 
What is reflex arc?
How do muscle cells move?
What happens when  is heated in the absence of air? Give the relevant equation.
Which gas is usually liberated when an acid reacts with a metal?
Why do we use copper and Aluminium wire for transmission of electric current ?
Why not iron? 
Write observation with reaction for the following :
 Justify this statement giving the chemical equation for the reaction involved. 
State the giving chemical equation for the reaction involved.
Write the name of reaction involved. 
Which is the internal energy reserve in plants? 
Do the animals have the same energy reserve ? 
Differentiate between renewable and non-renewable sources of energy with one example for each. 
Calculate the effective resistance when they are connected in series. 
calculate the current flowing when the combination is connected to a 6V battery.
Which of the above observations of the student appears to be wrong and why ?
How would the reading of voltmeter (V) change if it is connected between C and D ?
Justify your answer.
Identify the substance oxidized, substance reduced, oxidizing agent and reducing agent in the following reaction: 
Packets of potato chips are flushed with nitrogen gas, why?
Give reason for the above observation.
What happens when we add water to the salt which is obtained after heating? 
write its formula.
How does baking soda help to make cakes and bread soft and spongy?
List the raw materials used for the preparation of baking soda.
Write chemical equation for its preparation. 
Which hormone is responsible for the changes noticed in males at puberty?
Deficiency of which hormone leads to dwarfism.
Name the hormone which is injected to a diabetic patient. 
What is reflex arc?
How do muscle cells move? 
Draw a neat diagram of excretory system of human beings and label the following.
How is urine produced.
Name two excretory products other than  and  in plants.
Draw diagram to show the nutrition in amoeba and label the part used for this purpose. 
Mention any other purpose served by this part other than nutrition.
Name the glands associated with digestion of starch in human digestive tract 
mention their role.
How is required pH maintained in the stomach and small intestine?
What will happen if a bar magnet is:
Name the above phenomenon and mention the name of the scientist who discovered it. 
State the law that relates the direction of current in the coil with the direction of motion of the magnet.
Name the law used to find the direction of magnetic field.
Draw a diagram to represent a uniform magnetic field in a given region.
List two properties of magnetic field lines.
Name the enzyme present in saliva. 
Why is it important? 
What is emulsification?
Name the substance that is oxidized in the body during respiration.
Why are lungs divided into very small sac-like structures?
Draw a neat diagram of human respiratory system and label the parts and label 9 parts in it.
What are the end products of digestion of fat and protein in human beings?
What is its least count.
Analyze chemical vapour deposition method of preparing nanomaterials 
Show the status of all the elements after each pass very clearly underlining the changes.
 Of the two polymers  polythene and phenol-formaldehyde resins,  which is a  thermoplastic and which is a thermo-set?
 What happens when the atoms of a substance are regroupe?
 What can be concluded from the statements above? 
 Give a title to the passage.
 Write a synonym to the word discernible.
 What are the uses of chlorine? 
Write a letter to the Editor, The Hindu facing due to bad roads and traffic.
What are the different perspectives on
Mention the number of people who migrated from UK for various reasons, and prepare a list of points which supports the pie chart. of about 200 to 250 words.
Propose modifications to the well-known algorithms, such as Apriori and FP-growth, to adapt to such a situation.
Write a Java program to read the roll number of a student and to display the name and SM marks of the student. 
Explain the life cycle of thread in detail and write a source code to get substring of user entered string using Thread class.
Describe the mechanism to allow multiple clients to access a server through a socket with suitable program.
Write java program that write a string to an output file and reads the file to verify that the output was written correctly.
Define the concept of Object Serialization with suitable example.
What is the difference between JDBC and ODBC?