Explain how the uplink design is different from downlink design?
Explain telemetry, tracking and command (TT&C) subsystem of a satellite With the help of block diagram? 
Explain the concept of rain induced cross polarization interference.
Explain the DA-TDMA brust structure.
explain how if differs from a simple TDMA frame?
Explain what is meant by asymmetric channels.
Explain the concept of RMA? 
Write a short notes on different subsystems of earth station? 
Write down the requirements for the design of an earth station? 
Create 6 4 Write a short notes on GPS system? 
Explain what do you mean by the direct broadcast satellite.
Explain with the help of a block diagram.
Write note on. 
Design the channel backlog in packets for a slotted ALOHA satellite channel with an infinite population and at equilibrium. 
Explain the relation between Radar range resolution and the signal bandwidth with relevant equation. 
Distinguish between average power and Peak power and express the relation between the two. 
Discuss the importance of the position of a target in a lobe for maximum probable detection of the target? 
Explain how the unambiguous range can be manipulated with proper design of pulse repetition frequency. 
What type of change the received frequency will undergo?
explain the change in the frequency? 
Explain how the multipath signals produce error in FM altimeter.
Write the applications of CW Radar.
What factor determines the difference between the transmitted frequency and the received frequency in an FM transmitter.
describe range and Doppler measurement if the transmitted signal of a CW radar is frequency modulated.
Explain Equipment instabilities. 
Explain Scanning modulation.
Explain the characteristic(s) of radiated energy that need to be altered to achieve electronic scanning? 
Discuss the significance of this Statement with reference to target motion off the lobe axis? 
Distinguish the difference between a mono static and bi static radar system.
Discuss the parameters on which maximum detectable range of a radar system depends. 
Write the simplifier version of radar range equation and explain how this equation does not adequately describe the performance of practical radar? 
Obtain the SNR at the output of IF amplifier of radar receiver for a specified probability of detection without exceeding a specified probability of false alarm.
Explain system losses will effect on the radar range? 
Discuss about the factors that influence the prediction of radar range.
Explain the relation between un-ambiguous range estimation and multiple-time-around echoes.
Discuss the results  of  multiple  frequency  usage  for  operating  FM- CW radar while mentioning the limitations of multiple frequency usage in CW radars. 
Why the step error and quantization errors which occur in cycle counter are used for frequency measurement in FMCW Radar? 
How to select the difference between two transmitted signals of CW radar? 
Discuss the factors limiting the performance of an MTI system.
What are blind speeds? Suggest a method to reduce the effect of blind  speeds  for unambiguous detection of a moving target.
Explore the possibility of broadening the clutter rejection null using a second delay line canceller in the MTI radar system.
Discuss the laminations of non-coherent MTI Radar systems.
Discuss the effect of surface quality and reaction characteristics of a target on the angular tracking accuracy of tracking radar. 
discuss the Sequential lobbing type of tracking technique in a tracking radar system.
Why does tracking radar have poor accuracy at low elevation angles? 
Explain the block diagram of amplitude comparison mono pulse for extracting error signals in both elevation and azimuth. 
Draw and explain the following with respect to Tracking in range.
Draw and explain block diagram of Conical-scan tracking radar.
Describe the operation of branch and balanced type duplexers with necessary diagrams. 
Discuss in detail about Matched-filter Receiver with necessary expressions.
Explain how a threshold level is selected in threshold detection?
Why most of the radar receivers are considered as envelop detectors while calculating the SNR? 
Discuss the relation between the matched filter characteristics and correlation detection .
List out the general characteristics and bring out requirements for a radar receiver .
Explain how a circulator can be utilized for a radar receiver protection .
List out the applications of phased array antennas and discuss.
List the advantages and limitations of phased array antennas. 
Compute the maximum detectable range of a radar system specified below.
Use the radar range equation to determine the required transmit power for the TRACS radar given.
If  Li(40) is 3.5 dB and Li(10 ) is 1.7 dB, find out the collapsing loss. 
Determine f2 and f when f1=4.2 kHz.
Determine the acceleration of a target if the received signal bandwidth is 40 Hz and the operating wavelength is 9 cm.
Determine the operating wavelength  if the target is moving with acceleration as same as acceleration of gravity and the received signal bandwidth is 50 Hz.
With a transmit (CW) frequency of 5GHz, calculate the Doppler frequency seen by stationary Radar when the target radial velocity is 100km/hr.
The minimum receivable signal in a radar receiver whos IF bandwidth is1.5 MHz and which has a noise figure 9 dB will be.
A target is moving with a velocity of 360km/hour radically towards the transmitting frequency generator of 3 GHz will be.
What is the highest frequency that a radar can be operated if it is?
Explain how you will design application to create a Smart Card in detail.
Analyze and design application for Adaptive Cruise Control System in Car in detail.
Explain how will you design a application for Automatic Chocolate Vending Machine in detail. 
What is the purpose of laminating the core in a transformer?
Describe the construction details of transformer.
Explain the principle of operation of transformer.
Explain the ON load condition of a transformer.
find the following: (a) Secondary volt ampere (b) Primary current (c) Primary volt ampere. 
Find the number of turns in the low voltage winding.
Explain the real life example of a leader and what is the role played in an organization.
Write the difference between RISC and CISC processors?
Write the difference between PLD and ASIC?
Write the difference between masked ROM and OTP? 
Write is the difference between I2C and SPI communication interface.
What are the different types of memories used in embedded systems design? 
Explain the role of each? 
What are the different types of memories used for program storage in embedded systems design? 
Define inline assembly?
Give the limitations of the high level language based development.
Explain the role of RESET circuit in embedded system? 
Explain the role of Real Time Clock in embedded system? 
Analyze how accurate time management is achieved in real time kernel?
Give the comparison between multitasking, multiprogramming, multi processing?
What is the difference between a general purpose kernel and real time kernel? 
Give an example for both? 
Explain thread context switch and the various activities performed in thread context switching for user level and kernel level threads? 
Explain the different multitasking models in the operating system context? 
What is the difference between Hard and Soft real time systems? 
Give an example for Hard and Soft real time kernels? 
Give the difference between buffer over run and buffer under run?
Analyze the critical section problem?
Explain the various process interaction models in detail? 
Explain The message passing technique for IPC. What are the merits and demerits of message based IPC? 
Explain the interlocked functions for locked based mutual under windows OS .
Explain the critical section object for process synchronization? Why critical section object is based synchronization fast?  
Write a short note on Macro Economics.
Define Managerial Economics. 
Write its scope.
Identify the factors which are influencing Elasticity of Demand. 
Write about the Demand Function.
Write a note on opportunity cost.
Write Differences between explicit and implicit costs.
Write the assumptions of BEA.
Identify the market skimming.
Write short notes on Monopoly Competition.
Write short note on Price Maker. 
Write short note on Price Taker.
Write short note Cost plus pricing.
Write a short note on Common Seal.
Write any two differences between Public Company and Private company. 
Write a short note on Public Limited Company.
Write a short note on Private company.
Write a short note on Active Partner.
Write a short note on Minor Partner.
Write a short note on Partner by Estoppel.
Write different types of shares. 
Write a formula for Pay- back period.
Write a formula for Average Rate of Return.
Write a formula for Net Present Value.
Write a formula for Profitability Index.
Write a formula for Internal Rate of Return .
Write a note on profitability index. 
Write the advantages and Disadvantages of IRR Method. 
Write a note on provisions for doubtful debts.
Write the meaning of Earnings per share.
Write the significance of Trial Balance.
Prepare Trading and Profit & Loss A/c and Balance Sheet of Mr. Mukharjee as at 31-12-1998 from the following Trial Balance .
Briefly discuss about grassland ecosystem .
Differentiate between grazing food chain detritus food chain. 
Discuss the structure and function of desert ecosystem.
Sustainable management of natural resources is essential to provid.
What is the function of? 
Whats fact? 
Opinion?
What assumptions? 
What statement is relevant? 
What motive is there? 
What conclusions?
What does the author believe? 
What does the author assume? 
State the point of view of. 
What ideas apply?
What ideas justify the conclusion?
Whats the relationship between?
The least essential statements are.
Whats the main idea?
What literary form is used?
What persuasive technique is used?
Determine the point of view, bias, values, or intent underlying presented material.
Which events could not have happened?
If happened, what might the ending have been?
How is similar to?
What do you see as other possible outcomes?
Why did changes occur? 
Can you explain what must have happened when? 
What were some of the motives behind? 
What was the turning point?
What are some of the problems of?
Design a questionnaire to gather information.
Write a commercial to sell a new product.
Make a flow chart to show the critical stages. 
Construct a graph to illustrate selected information.
Make a family tree showing relationships.
Devise a play about the study area. 
Write a biography of a person studied.
Prepare a report about the area of study.
Conduct an investigation to produce information to support a view.
Review a work of art in terms of form, color and texture.
Can you distinguish between?
If  happened, what might the ending have been? 
How was this similar to?
What was the underlying theme of? 
What do you see as other possible outcomes? 
Why did changes occur?
Can you compare your  with that presented in?
Can you explain what must have happened when?
What was the turning point in the game?
What was the problem with? 
Which tells?
If the pattern continues.
Which could?
What rule explains,completes this pattern?
What is/are missing?
What is the best estimate for?
Which shows?
What is the effect of?
If happened, what might the ending have been? 
How was this similar to? 
Can you compare your with that presented in? 
What are some of the problems of? 
Can you distinguish between? 
What was the turning point in the game? 
Design a questionnaire to gather information. 
Write a commercial to sell a new product. 
Conduct an investigation to produce information to support a view. 
Construct a graph to illustrate selected information. 
Make a jigsaw puzzle. 
Make a family tree showing relationships. 
Put on a play about the study area. 
Write a biography of the study person. 
Prepare a report about the area of study. 
Make all the arrangements and record the steps needed. 
Analyze whether the following grammar is LR(1) or not. 
Explain your answer with reasons.
Prepare a canonical parsing table for the grammar given below. 
List the various ways of calling the procedures? 
Explain in detail?
Write a note on the specification of a simple type checker.
Define a type expression? Explain the equivalence of type expressions with an appropriate example.
Analyze the significance of LOCK signal in 8086?
Analyze how DMA interrupt have priority over the processor interrupt when both interrupts occur simultaneously?
Show that the average case time complexity of quick sort is O(nlogn).
Differentiate Breadth first search and depth first search.
Compare and contrast BFS and DFS.
Compare the schemas for the multidimensional data models?
Compare Enterprise warehouse, data mart, virtual warehouse?
Compare Data cleaning, data transformation?
Analyze That all nonempty subsets of a frequent itemset must also be frequent. 
Analyze how can one mine frequent itemsets efficiently considering multiple occurrences of items?
Analyze and find whether View exists if the table is dropped from the database?
Analyze why, then, do we have weak entity sets?
Analyze which of the following concurrency control protocols ensure both conflict serializability and freedom from deadlock? 
Analyze which one of the schedules is conflict-serializable?
 Analyze whether a recovery manager required for this system?
 A clustering index is defined on the fields of which type? 
 Analyze them.
 Distinguish a class and an object.
 Differentiate compositor and composition.
 Differentiate Alexanders patterns and Design patterns.
 Analyze the steps for simplification of POS expression? 
 Write briefly about how hazards can become a disaster.
 Define  biological hazards.
   write a note on meteorological hazards. 
   what is earthquake hazard? 
   What causes earthquake. 
   Write a brief note on volcanoes. What are the hazards involved?
   What are the effects of the volcanoes on the environment?
   Explain briefly about the effects of earthquakes on the environment.
   Give an example from a real incident.
   Write down the different types of atmospheric hazards.
   Write in short about the structure of cyclone.
   Discuss the flood-prone regions in India.
What is mitigation?
What is meant by human ecology? How it is related to Disasters. 
Explain sea level rise. 
What are its causes and effects?
Write a note on global atmospheric changes.
What is the difference between natural disaster and man-made disaster? 
What are floods? 
What are the harmful effects of floods.
Write a short note on earthquakes. 
What are its causes? 
What is epicenter and focus ? 
draw with a neat diagram? Based on depth how many types of earthquake are classified.
What ais endogeneous hazards ? Explain with examples in detail.
Discuss the various measures that should be taken for disaster.
Explain the phases of disaster management.
Why should every village have a disaster management committee? Write a short notes.
Develop the pin out of CD4511.
Discriminate I2C data format.
Explain the terms Nitriding decarbonisation.
Draw the layout of four wheels automobile and indicate majorcomponents.
Discuss briefly about Crescent gear pump, Rotor pump andPlunger pump?
Draw and Explain pressure lubrication system?
Compare battery ignition system with magneto ignition system?
Draw and explain different types contact breakers?
Compare pollutants of solar system with conventional fuels.
Explain the working of a Horn cutout relay.
Explain clearly The operation of the turn signal light unit.
Draw the simplified wiring circuit diagram.
Discuss the troubles commonly experienced in lighting system.
Sketch and explain different types of leaf springs.
Sketch and explain the construction and working of wishbonetype independent front suspension.
What are the requirements of brake fluid?
Sketch and explain the construction and working of Ackermannsteering mechanism.
By using GT what types of benefits are associated in Manufacturing, Production and Quality control functional areas.
Write the steps involved in production flow analysis. Why doyou carryout such analysis.
How does the helix angle influence on the efficiency of square threaded screw?
In the design of power screws, on what factors does the thread bearing pressure depend? Explain.
On what factors does the thread bearing pressure depend in the design of power screw? Explain.
Why is a separate nut preferable to an integral nut with the body of a screw jack?
What do you understand by overhauling of screw?
Write a short note on multiple threads.
What are the stresses induced in power screws?
Write a sort note on differential screw.
What are the end conditions that have to be taken while designing a screw in a screw jack against buckling load?
Why the load cup of a screw jack is made separate from the head of the spindle?
Write a sort note on compound screw.
What are power screws?
What are the types of screw threads used for power screws?
Show that theengine may be balanced for primary forces. If the engineDifferentiate closed and open system.
Differentiate closed and open system.
Differentiate the system, surroundings and boundary Explain in detail.
Differentiate thermal equilibrium and thermodynamic equilibrium, explain.
Enumerate the Isobaric process from thermodynamic point of view?
Enumerate the Isochoric process from thermodynamic point of view? 
Enumerate the Isothermal process from thermodynamic point of view? 
Enumerate the Isentropic process from thermodynamic point of view? 
Enumerate the polytrophic process from thermodynamic point of view? 
Explain displacement work with neat diagram? 
State Zeroth law and explain with a good example? 
Explain the Joules experiment with a neat sketch? 
Compare the first law of thermodynamics with its corollaries? 
Complete the following table showing the method for each item and.
Compute the rate of shaft work input to the air in KW.
Compare the first law and second law of thermodynamics with suitable examples?
State PMM1 and PMM2, in which manner both are different?
Compare the relation with process and cycle? Explain.
Explain the influence of entropy on various parameters?
Define Gibbs and Helmholtzs functions? Compare the importance of them?
Compare the exhaust temperature of second and third Carnot engines?
Distinguish which of the following heat rejection represent a reversible, irreversible or impossible result.
Compare calculation for the heat flowing out of the high temperature reservoir?
Compare isobar on Mollier diagram diverse from one another?
Analyze the properties at Triple point and state properties?
Analyze the procedure adopted in Steam calorimetry ?
Compare the enthalpy, entropy and volume of steam at 1.4MPa, 3800C.
Compute the characteristic gas constant and the molecular weight of the gas mixture?
Compare the Volumetric and Gravimetric Analysis of mixtures?
Compare dry bulb temperature and wet bulb temperature with a sketch?
Differentiate the Relation between specific humidity and relative humidity?
Compare degree of saturation and adiabatic saturation.
determine partial pressure of the constituent and gas constant of mixture.
Compute degree of saturation, dew point temperature and enthalpy of the mixture?
Compute partial pressure of the water vapor, specific humidity, dew point temperature and relative humidity?
Determine the relative humidity and humidity ratio of the inlet mixture.
Classify the assumptions to be made for the analysis of all air standard cycles?
Compare Otto cycle with Diesel cycle?
Differentiate cycle and power cycle. Explain in detail with diagram.
Compare the thermal efficiency and mean effective pressure of Otto and diesel cycles?
Compare the thermal efficiency and mean effective pressure of dual and diesel cycles?
Compare the thermal efficiency and mean effective pressure of Otto and dual cycles?
Determine efficiency and mean effective pressure?
Determine air standard efficiency, mean effective pressure and power of the engine if the working cycles per minute are 300?
Determine the Compression ratio, if efficiency of an Otto cycle is 60% and  = 1.5?
Is his claim possible?
Determine the efficiency of the engine.
Determine air standard efficiency of cycle? Take  of air is 1.4.
Give an examples of both a Unilateral and bilateral tolerance.
With the help of neat sketches sate the essential conditions for Clearance fit and Interference fit.
With the help of neat sketches sate the essential conditions for transition fit.
In manufacturing system Hole basis or Shaft basis systems which process is preferable explain why.
Explain briefly the difference between the interchangeable manufacturing and selective assembly.
Find the values of allowance, and tolerance for hole and shaft.
Name the various types of interferometers.
Explain the method of checking the height of component with the help of optical flat.
Explain the working and construction of auto-collimator.
What are the Factors Affecting Surface Roughness?
What are the reasons for controlling surface texture?
Explain what are the symbols used to indicate the direction of lay along with neat sketch.
Explain the working of Talysurf surface roughness instrument.
Explain the working of Pofilograph surface roughness instrument.
Explain the construction and working of a sigma comparator.
Describe the method of measurement of minor diameter of internal threads.
Describe the method of measuring the pitch of the screw by using the pitch measuring machine.
what are the measuring equipments used for alignment test explain briefly?
What are the various manufacturing errors in gear?
Give the elements for specifying the gear and give formulae fori) circular pitch ii) module iii) addendum iv) base diameter.
determine the following:.
determine the deflections at mid spans given E=2X105N/mm2, and I=5X106 mm4.
formulate the finite element equations for contant strain triangle as shown in fig 1.1.
calculate the element stress for the element shown in fig1.2.
Explain Iso-parametric, sub-parametric and superparametric elements.
Advantages of iso-parametric elements.
Write short notes on Gaussian quadrature integration technique.
For the configuration shown in figure, determine the deflection at the point load application.
 Suggest suitable wild life conservation practices. 
Identify and explain the present day major threats to the biodiversity of India? 
Discuss the various strategies of conservation of biodiversity? 
Write the direct and indirect values of biodiversity?
Explain the necessity for viewing the biodiversity as a global resource.
Describe with examples the steps that are being taken towards this  purpose. 
Evaluate cattle grazing on private and public .
What are the problems encountered in the disposal of solid waste from various .
What are the problems encountered in the disposal of solid waste from .
Mention the objectives of environmental protection act. 
What are the principles of sustainable cities.
Explain the concept of sustainable development .
Briefly explain the Municipal Solid Waste management.
Distinguish between static and dynamic characteristics? 
Distinguish between square and pulse wave generators?
Distinguish between the oscillator and function generator?
Classify and explain various types of errors in measurement. 
Differentiate between wave analyzer and harmonic distortion analyzer? 
Distinguish between wave analyzer and Harmonic distortion analyzer. 
Distinguish between wave Analyzer and Spectrum analyzer. 
Distinguish between thermocouple and thermistor.
Distinguish between  magnetic flow meter with turbine flow meter .
Distinguish between ionization gauge and Pirani gauge.
With reference to Z-transform, state the initial and final value theorems? 
Examine the relation between DFT & Z-transform.
Analyze about periodic convolution .
Find the convolution sum of x(n) =1 n = -2 0 1 = 2 n= -1  = 0 elsewhere  and h(n) =  (n)   (n-1) + ( n-2) -  (n-3).
Draw the butterfly line diagram for 8 - point FFT calculation and briefly explain.
Compute IDFT of sequence X(K)={7 -.707-j.707 j 0.707-j0.707 1 0.707+j0.707 j - .707+j.707} .
Distinguish IIR and FIR filters.
Distinguish analog and digital filters .
Write the expression for the order of chebyshev filter and Butterworth filter.
For the given specifications find the order of chebyshev-I p=1.5dB, s=10dB, p =2rad/sec, s =30 rad/sec.
What is the principle of designing FIR filter using frequency sampling method? 
Give the equation specifying Kaiser window. 
Compare IIR and FIR filters .
What are the categories of multirate?
What do you understand by a fixed-point number? 
How would you relate the steady-state noise power due to quantization and the b bits representing the binary sequence?
Derive the expression for interpolation by factor .
State Continuity Equation and also represent the equation.
State Momentum Equation and also represent the equation.
Define irrotational flow condition.
Define incompressible flow condition.
State stream and potential functions for doublet flow .
Discuss the role of viscosity in fluid flow.
Difference between laminar and turbulent boundary layer velocity profile.
Explain the formation of trailing vortices.
What is downwash?
What is source panel method? 
What is vortex panel method?
List out lift augmentation methods.
Explain how flaps augment the lift production?
Explain the working of vortex generators.
Derive the differential form of continuity equation.
Derive the differential form of momentum equation.
Derive the Navier stokes equation.
Discuss the importance of aerodynamics. Give historical examples.
 List out and explain all the fundamental variables of aerodynamics.
 Derive the stream function and potential functions for the combination of
uniform and doublet flow.
Obtain the expression velocity potential and stream for an uniform flow in
terms of Cartesian and polar co-ordinatesz.
Explain the boundary layer growth along a flat surface.
Discuss in detail laminar, transition and turbulent flows.
 Obtain an expression for the velocity induced at the center of the loop in terms of  and R.
 Obtain an expression for the velocity at distance A on the line, as induced by the vortex filament.
  Calculate the lift and induced drag
coefficients for this wing at a geometric angle of attack = 70.
Explain in brief Lanchesters experiment.
Explain in detail Prandtls lifting line theory.
Why the propeller is twisted by blade element analysis blade angle?
Explain.
Compare the role of winglets and slats in lift augmentation.
Derive the integral form and differential form of continuity equation.
Calculate the drag oefficient for the wedge. 
 Show that the two flows are dynamically similar..
 Calculate the drag coefficient for the cylinder, based on projected frontal area of the cylinder.
 Derive expressions to estimate lift and drag coefficients.
  Calculate the drag coefficient for the cylinder, based on projected frontal area of the cylinder.
  Derive expressions to estimate lift and drag coefficients.
  Explain with sketch the thin aerofoil theory.
  Explain in detail, resolution of thin airfoil problem into lifting cases and
their solutions.
Explain in detail all the elementary flows and their combinations.
Discuss in detail the aerodynamics of spinning tennis ball.
Explain boundary layer separation and the factors that influence boundary
layer separation.
Derive the Prandtls boundary layer equations and derive the blassius solution.for the flat plate problem.
Compare the two results.
Explain elliptic loading & wings of elliptic platforms. 
Derive the expression for minimum induced drag for Elliptic platform.
Demonstrate the verification of the statement.
Compare the formulation in (a) above with that in the classical lifting line.
What are vortex generators and slats? Explain how they are employed to augment the lift production.
Derive the  Rankines  semi empirical formula for columns .
Evaluate secant formula for column subjected to eccentric load. 
Show that stress function  = Ax2+Bx2y+Cy3+D(5x2y3-y5) is valid for the beam and evaluate the constants A,B,C and D. 
 Find out maximum slope and deflection.
 Derive deflection f cantilever beam subjected to concentrated load at the centre. 
 Find the expressions for maximum deflection and bending moment of beam under concentrated load. 
 Find the deflection of the cantilever beam at the point of application of 1000 N load.
 Derive deflection f simply supported beam subjected to concentrated load entre using Macaulays method.
 Calculate the vertical deflection of the joint B and the horizontal movement of the support D in the truss shown in Figure.
 Use the principle of virtual work to calculate the vertical displacements at the quarter- and mid-span points in the beam shown in figure.
 Determine the shearing stress in each wall of a rectangular cross-section of closed tube    subjected to torque of 2700 N-m. 
 Determine the variation of shear flow throughout the tube of a rectangular cross section whose outer width and height are 100 mm and 200 mm respectively.
 Determine the shearing stress in the each of the four walls of such tubing when it is subjected to a torque of 2700 N-m? 
 
  

Determine the element stresses.
Determine the nodal displacements and element stresses for the two dimensional loaded plate as shown in fig.
Determine the nodal temparatures in a composite wall shown in fig.
Determine the temperature at the nodal interfaces for the two layered wall shown in fig.
Determine the nodal temparatures and rate of heat transfer through a composite wall shown in fig.
Determine the temperature distribution through the composite wall shown in figure.
Determine the temperature distribution at five nodes (include two sides of the walls) in equal distances through the wall thickness.
Determine the distribution and amount of heat transferred from the fin to air at 200c with h= 9W/m20c take width of the fin is 1000 mm.
Analyze whether the following grammar is LR(1) or not. Explain your answer with reasons.