Explain the equations for resistors in equivalent delta. 
State Ohms law?
Explain the equations for resistors in equivalent star. 
Explain two capacitors are connected in series then Ceq=C1C2/C1+C2?
Explain derivation of star-delta conversion equations?
Explain derivation of delta-star conversion equations? 
Derive the condition for maximum power transfer theorem?
Obtain the condition for maximum efficiency of a transformer?
Obtain the equivalent circuit of a single phase transformer?
Derive the approximate equivalent circuit of a 1 phase transformer.
Derive an emf equation of a single phase transformer.
Derive the equation for induced EMF of a DC generator? 
Evaluate 5 3 Derive the torque equation of DC motor? 
Derive the expression for rotor frequency?
Derive the expression for the armature torque and shaft torque of a DC motor.
Estimate link power budget equation and explain about the downlink and uplink rain fade margin.
Compare similarities and differences.
Compare and contrast the situations with a power amplifier and a power oscillator in the transmitter of an MTI system .
Compare and contrast conical scan and sequential lobbing type tracking techniques.
Find the unambiguous range for a radar working with a pulse repetition frequency fP  of 1000 K Hz.
Compute the maximum detectable range of a radar system specified below.
compute the power received at 50 Km distance from the radar antenna.
If  Li(40) is 3.5 dB and Li(10 ) is 1.7 dB, find out the collapsing loss.
Find out the Doppler frequency shift caused by a space borne .
Determine the operating wavelength  if the target is moving with acceleration as same as acceleration of gravity and the received signal bandwidth is 50 Hz.
The minimum receivable signal in a radar receiver whos IF bandwidth is1.5 MHz and which has a noise figure 9 dB will be.
A target is moving with a velocity of 360km/hour radically towards the transmitting frequency generator of 3 GHz will be.
Estimate the system noise figure if the antenna is at 300deg Kelvin and the transmission line loss is 1.5 dB and the receiver noise figure is  2.6 dB ? 
Mention the difference between core and shell type transformers.
Define voltage regulation of a transformer.
What are the applications of step-up & step-down transformer? 
How transformers are classified according to their construction?
Define transformation ratio. 
Explain mutual induction principle.
What is meant by step response of circuit? 
Evaluate What is meant by driven circuit and un-driven circuit? 
Define time constant?
Explain time constant significance in Series RL circuit?   
Define h parameters and draw equivalent ckt same. 
What the significance of h parameters? 
What the use of parameters?
Derive condition of symmetry for y parameters. 
Explain the principle of operation of single phase 2-winding transformer.
Derive condition of symmetry for h parameters.
Explain the losses in a Transformer .
Explain the NO load condition of a transforme.
Design a high pass filter having a cut-off frequency of 1 khz with a load of 600 ohms .
calculate: i) The full load primary and secondary currents. 
Calculate the value of Maximum flux density on core and the emf induced in the secondary.
Calculate (i) the maximum flux density in the core (ii) induced emf in the secondary winding.
Determine the equivalent circuit referred to primary side. 
Explain evolution of management thought or theory of management which is universally applicable? 
What is the contribution of Henry Fayol to the management process? 
Are his administrative principles strictly enforceable in the current? 
According to Taylors scientific management approach bring to the process of management? 
Did it change the value of time? 
If so, in what way?
Discuss about sustainability of an organization and how runs in the society.
Write the merits and limitations of the RS232 interface?
Explain the components of typical embedded systems in detail.
What is digital signal processing (DSP)? 
Explain the role of DSP in embedded system design?
What is processor architecture?
What is the different processor architectures available processor/controller design?   
Give an example? 
What is sensor?
Explain its role in embedded system design?
Illustrate with an example? 
What is actuator? 
Explain its role in embedded system design? Illustrate with an example?
Explain the sequence of operation for communicating with 1 wire slave device.
Explain the role of Watch dog Timer in embedded system?
Explain the role of Brown out protection circuit in embedded system?
Explain the various steps involved in the assembling of an assembly language program?
Explain the advantages of Assembly level language based on embedded firmware development?
Explain about library file creation and usage in the assembly language based development? 
Discuss all activates are involved in the context switching? 
Explain the different queues are associated with process scheduling?
Explain the memory architecture of a process? Explain various activities involved in the creation of process and threads?
Explain how Threads and process are related? What are the common to process and threads? 
Give the difference between mutex and semaphores?
What is inter process communication (IPC)?
Give an overview of different IPC mechanisms adopted by various operating systems? 
Explain the different task communication synchronization issues encountered in inter process communication? 
What is critical section?  
What are the different techniques for controlling access to critical section? 
Explain the architecture of Device drivers.
What is unlimited Liability?
Identify the meaning of trial balance.
Identify the formulas for liquidity ratios.
Define Double Entry System. Describe the advantages and Disadvantages of Double Entry System.
Prepare Trading and Profit & Loss A/c of Mr. Rama Raju for the year ending 31-3-2007 from the following Trial Balance.
which is more important ,moral,better,logical,valid,appropriate?
find the errors.
is there better solution to?
judge the value of.
what do you think about?
can you defend your position about?
do you think good or bad thing?
how would you have handeled?
what changes to would you recommend?
do you believe?
how would you feel if?
how effective are?
what are the consequenses of?
what influence will have?
what are the pros and cons of?
what is the value ?
what are the alternatives?
who will gain and who will lose?
Prepare a list of criteria to judge. 
Conduct a debate about an issue of special interest.
Make a booklet about five rules you see as important. 
Convince others. 
Form a panel to discuss views.
Write a letter to. 
advising on changes needed.
Write a half-yearly report. 
Prepare a case to present your view about.
Is there a better solution to?
Judge the value of.
Can you defend your position about?
Do you think  is a good or a bad thing?
How would you have handled? 
What changes to would you recommend?
Do you believe? 
Are you a person?
How would you feel if? 
How effective are? 
What do you think about? 
What number does stand for?
What is the probability?
What are the chances?
What effect?
How many different?
What happens to when?
What is the significance of?
How many different combinations?
Find the number of and in the figure below.
Is there a better solution to? 
Judge the value of. 
Can you defend your position about? 
Do you think  is a good or a bad thing? 
What changes to  would you recommend? 
Do you believe?  
Prepare a list of criteria to judge a show. 
Indicate priority and ratings. 
Conduct a debate about an issue of special interest. 
Make a booklet about 5 rules you see as important. 
Form a panel to discuss views, e.g. "Learning at School." 
Write a letter to advising changes needed at.
Write a half yearly report. 
Compare inheritance verses parameterized types.
Memorize the useful techniques for implementing the abstract factory pattern. 
What is sedimentation? What are the different aspects in this process?
What are  the various sedimentation problems created in the environment.
Suggest the best management practices of soil erosion and sedimentation.
Write an account on the impact of disasters to life and environment.
Discuss the role of technology in disaster management.
Write the methods to predict natural disasters.
Comment on the distribution of earthquakes across the globe.
Explain how the magnitude of earthquake is determined. 
Identify the earthquake hazards in india and explain.
Write an account on the genetic disorders caused by radiation pollution.
Explain briefly the pattern of global population growth in recent years which is causing alarm to environmental experts. 
How does the community of a village play the most important role in times of disaster as first responder.
Explain the equations for resistors in equivalent delta. If the resistors Ra, Rb and Rc are connected electrically in star?
Explain the equations for resistors in equivalent star. If the resistors Ra, Rb and Rc are connected electrically in delta?
Explain two capacitors are connected in series then Ceq=C1C2/C1+C2? 
Explain derivation of star-delta conversion equations? 
Explain derivation of delta-star conversion equations?
Calculate i) Current in the coil ii) Potential difference across each element?
Obtain the condition for maximum efficiency of a transformer? 
Obtain the equivalent circuit of a single phase transformer? 
Derive the torque equation of DC motor? 
Enumerate advantages of GT.
Enumerate the advantages of Computer Assisted Part Programming when compared to Manual Part Programming.
Under what force, the big and end bolts and caps are designed?
What is self locking property of threads and where it is necessary?
Distinguish between macroscopic and microscopic point of view?
Distinguish between different types of systems with examples.
numerate the Perfect Gas Laws and analyze from thermodynamics point of view?
Evaluate the performance of refrigeration cycle?
Support diesel car have a better fuel efficiency than a gasoline car?
Examine the performance of vapor compression cycle?
Examine the performance of Bell-Coleman cycle?
With the help of suitable diagram explain minimum and maximum metal shaft and hole.
Explain the manufacturing process, calibration , and uses of slip gauges.
Difference between comparator and a gauge.
Evaluate the stresses in each element.
Evaluate the integral I ( )dx dy in the limits of -1 to +1 using gauss quadrature numerical integration.
Verify with exact solution.
Evaluate the element stiffness matrix for the triangular element shown in fig.
State Ohs law? 
Derive the torque equation of DC motor?
How  do  different  developmental  activities,  including  construction  of dams, affect the biodiversity and action need to be taken to conserve them. 
What  are  environmental  hot  spots  of  your  city?  Explain  the  possible factors observed by you for degradation of quality of hot spot. Suggest suitable engineering measure to restore their quality. 
Identify examples of habitat destructuction or degradation in your local community that had harmfull effects on the populations of various wild .
Explain Ozone depletion and Ozone depleting substances (ODS).
List  out  the  Sewage  treatment  plants,  effluent  treatment  plants  and.
Compare weather strom drains and sanitary sewers combines or separate .
Compare From available air quality data determine weather outdoor air .
Explain Ozone depletion and Ozone depleting substances (ODS).
List  out  the  Sewage  treatment  plants,  effluent  treatment  plants.
Disscuss the major provisions in Forest Conservation Act 1980 .
What are the major municipal solid waste management and handling rules.
What are the biomedical wastes? 
What are the rules to manage and handle ?
What are the earth centric and human centric world views .
Draw the circuit and determine the value of R.
Determine the Multiplier resistance on the 50V range of a DC voltmeter.
Calculate the % of error due to loading effect . 
Calculate the values of the individual resistors.
Determine the frequency of oscillations. 
Find the frequency of oscillations. 
Determine the dynamic range of a spectrum analyser with a .
What is the minimum detectable signal of a spectrum analyzer.
Determine the secondary emission ratio `S' of a digital storage .
calculate the change in resistance. 
Calculate the change in resistance R, of the strain-gage element due to the applied stress. 
.Determine the Values of an unknown Lx in the fourth arm.
Determine the current through the detector galvonometer.
 Find the series equivalent of the unknown impedance? 
  Identify a causal system.
  What are the different methods of evaluating inverse Z-transform.
  What is the difference between bilateral and unilateral Z-transform.
  What is the Z-transform of the signal x(n)=Cos(won) u(n).
  What is advantage of cascade realization?
  Determine the impulse response and step response of the causal system given below and discuss on stability?
 Test the following systems for linearity, time invariance, causality and stability. 
 Define stable and unstable system test the condition for stability of the first- order system governed by the  equation y(n)=x(n)+bx(n-1). 
  determine the system output y(n) if the input x(n) is given by  x(n) =   2 (n)-(n-1).  
  Determine whether the following system is.
 Justify your answer.
  Determine the response of the system if input is  x(n)={1 2 31}.
  Determine the stability of the system Y(n)-(5/2)y(n-1)+y(n-2)=x(n)-x(n-1).
  Determine the transfer function and impulse response of the system .
  Find the direct form I cascade and parallel form for  H(Z) = z -1 -1 / 1  0.5 z-1+0.06 z-2 .
  Determine N=2048, the number of multiplications required using DFT is.
  Determine N=2048, the number of multiplications required using FFT is.
  Determine, the number of additions required using DFT is .
  Determine N=2048, the number of additions required using FFT .
  Explain the inverse FFT algorithm to compute inverse DFT of N=8 sequence.
   Draw the flow graph for the same.
   Find the 8-pont DFT of sequence x(n)={1  1 1 1  1 0 0 0} .
   Compute the eight-point DFT of the sequence X(n)=     1  0n7       0 otherwise by using   DIF algorithms .
   Compute 4-point DFT of a sequence x(n)={0  1 2 3} using DIT DIF algorithms.
   Find the IDFT of sequence X(k)={1 1+j 2 1-2j 0 1+2j 0 1-j} using DIF algorithm .
   Find the IDFT of sequence X(k)={8 1+j2 1-j 0 1 0 1+j  1-j2}.
  Draw the signal flow graph for 16-point DFT using   a) DIT algorithm    b) DIF algorithm .
  How can design digital filters from analog filters.
  Write the various frequency transformations in analog domain? 
   Write a note on pre warping.  
   What are the specifications of a practical digital filter.
   Design Butter worth filler using impulse invariant transformation. 
   For the given specifications find the order of butter worth filter p=3dB, s=18dB, fp=1KHz, fs=2KHz. 
   Obtain an analog cheby shev filter transfer function that satisfies the constraints 0H(j)1 for 02.  
Determine the order and the poles of type 1 low pass cheby shev filter that has a 1 dB ripple in the passband and passband frequency p =1000 and a stopband of frequency of 2000 and an attenuation of 40dB or more.
 Determine H(z) using bilinear method Assume T=1sec .
  What was the value of T? is this value unique? 
  If not, find another value of T consistent with the .
  Under What conditions a finite duration sequence h(n) will yield constant group delay in its frequency response characteristics and not the phase delay?
  Compare  Hamming  window  with Kaiser window. Evaluate 8 9 Draw impulse response of an ideal lowpass filter. 
  What are the disadvantage of Fourier series method ?
  Draw the frequency response of N point Hanning window.
  What is the necessary and sufficient condition for linear phase characteristics in FIR filter.
  Design a high pass filter using hamming window with a  cut-off  frequency of 1.2radians/second and N=9 .
  Find the values of h(n) for N=11.Find H(z).plot magnitude response. 
  Determine the filter coefficients for N=7.
  Explain the principle and procedure for designing FIR filter using rectangular window .
  Design an ideal Hilbert transformer having frequency response H (e j) = j   -    0 -j 0     for N=11 using rectangular window .
  Find the spectrum of exponential signal interpolated by factor 2 .
  What does multirate mean?
  Why should I do multirate DSP? 
  Which signals can be down sampled?
  How do I implement decimation ?
  Write expression for variance of round-off quantization noise. Evaluate 4 23 Define limit cycle Oscillations, and list out the types.
   When zero limit cycle oscillation and Over flow limit cycle oscillation has occur? 
   What are the differences between Fixed and Binary floating point number representation?  
What is the error range for Truncation and round-off process? 
What do you understand by input quantization error? 
What is the relationship between truncation error e and the bits b for representing a decimal into binary? 
What is meant rounding? 
Discuss its effect on all types of number representation? 
What is the effect of quantization on pole location? 
Evaluate  What is meant by quantization step size?
Find the normal and axial forces.
Find the moment on.
the airfoil at the leading edge of the airfoil.
Derive the integral form of continuity equation.
Derive Euler equation .
Derive coefficient of force, Reynolds number and mach number using Buckingham pi theorem.
Derive the stream function and potential functions for the combination of
uniform, doublet and vortex flows.
 Derive the stream function and potential functions for doublet flow.
 Define and derive irrotational and incompressible flow condition.
 Derive the expression for induced drag and minimum induced drag for elliptic platform.
 Derive the streamfunction and velocity potential for source and sink pair.
 Derive the streamfunction and velocity potential for source.
  calculate the geometric angle of attack of the wing.
   Calculate the induced drag for the airplane in the above problem.
   Explain starting, bound and trailing vortices of wings and explain the formation of the.
   Explain the concept of slip stream with only axial velocity and Explain in
detail how to read propeller chart.'
Explain in detail the actuator disk theory due to Rankine & Froude power
& thrust.
