Write about Fixed satellite service (FSS)?
Write short notes on satellites solar power system? 
Formulate general link equation. Find out an expression for C/N and G/T .
Develop various techniques for improving throughputs of ALOHA system.
Design the average packet delay for 50-kbps ALOHA satellite channel operating at a throughput of 8kbps with 1000-bit packets. 
Derive fundamental radar range equation governed by minimum receivable echo power smin. 
Estimate the radar cross-section of a spherical target if the wavelength .
Establish a relation between Doppler frequency shift and radial velocity of a moving target. 
Draw the block diagram of an amplitude comparison mono  pulse tracking radar in azimuth and elevation directions. 
Derive the impulse response of a matched filter that is commonly used  in a radar receiver.
Derive the expression for the noise figure of two networks that are in cascade.
Compute the time required for Radar transmitted electromagnetic energy to travel 150 m and return to the source?
Find the unambiguous range for a radar working with a pulse repetition frequency fP  of 1000 K Hz.
Describe the construction details of transformer.
Explain the ON load condition of a transformer .
Find the following: (a) Secondary volt ampere (b) Primary current (c) Primary volt ampere. 
Describe different types of capital. 
Identify different types of Activity Ratios.
can you design to?
can you see a possible solution to?
if you had access to all resourses,how would you deal with?
why dont you devise your own way to?
what would happen if?
how many ways can you?
can you create new and unusual uses for?
can you develop proposal which would?
how would you test?
propose an alternative.
how else would you?
state a rule.
Invent a machine to do a specific task.
Design a building to house your study. 
Create a new product. Give it a name and plan a marketing campaign.
Write about your feelings in relation to. 
Write a TV show play, puppet show, role play, song or pantomime about.
Design a record, book or magazine cover for.
Sell an idea.
Devise a way to.
Make up a new language and use it in an example.
Can you design a to ?
Why not compose a song about?
Can you see a possible solution to?
If you had access to all resources how would you deal with?
Why don't you devise your own way to deal with?
What would happen if?
How many ways can you?
Can you create new and unusual uses for?
Can you write a new recipe for a tasty dish? 
Can you develop a proposal which would?
Which most accurately?
Which is correct?
Which statement about is true?
What are the chances?
Which would best?
Which would the same?
Which statement is sufficient to proven?
Can you design a to ? 
Why not compose a song about? 
Can you see a possible solution to? 
If you had access to all resources how would you deal with? 
Why don't you devise your own way to deal with? 
What would happen if? 
How many ways can you? 
Can you create new and unusual uses for? 
Can you develop a proposal which would.
Invent a machine to do a specific task. 
Create a new product. 
Give it a name and plan a marketing campaign. 
Write a TV show, play, puppet show, role play, song or pantomime about.
Design a record, book, or magazine cover for.
Make up a new language code and write material using it. 
Sell an idea. 
Compose a rhythm or put new words to a known melody.
Write about parallel computing .
Write about virtual machines.
Write about resources sharing in clustures .
Write about middleware support for virtualisation.
Write about virtual support at os level.
What is autonomic computing? 
What is boomi software?
What is load balancing?
Write about Google app engine.
Write about VM life cycle.
Write about Microsoft windows azure.
Write about federation. 
Write about elasticity. 
Write about grid and cloud.
Write about cloud service life cycle.
Write about acceptance testing. 
What is digital entity? 
Write about service design. 
What is data security ?
Write about distributed system models and enabling technologies. 
Write about technologies for network based system with suitable diagrams. 
Write about Virtual Clusters and Resource Management.
What are the three computing paradigms for cloud computing?
Write about infrastructure enabling technology.
Write about RVWS design in detail.
Write about automated policy based management. 
Write about amazon web services cloud.
Write about elasticity.
Write about a need for cloud mashups.
Write about cloud contracting models.
Write about quality of service and value composition.
Design a data warehouse for a regional weather bureau.
Design an efficient algorithm to mine multilevel sequential patterns from a transaction database. 
Write a brief note on nuclear accidents and the Chernobyl disaster. 
Find the coordinates of the vertices if the triangle is first rotated 100 counter clockwise direction about the origin and then scaled to twice its size.
How do you obtain the orthographic projections of 3Dgeometric data base?
Describe the various database models which are generallyused.
Investigate the statement each segment of a B-Spline curveis influenced by only K control points or each control pointaffects only K curve segments.
Write the APT geometry and motion statements of this job.
Briefly discuss the following NC motion control systems.
Write a CNC Turning Programing for the figure 1.
Discuss the difficulties encountered in using conventional.
Write CNC Turning Programing for the Figure 3.
Write CNC Turning Programing for the Figure 4.
Write CNC milling Programing for the Figure 5
Write CNC milling Programing for the Figure 6.
Write CNC drilling Programing for the Figure 7.
Write CNC drilling Programing for the Figure 8.
Write CNC milling Programing for the Figure 5.
what are the advantages of Interchangeability?
Give complete classification gauges with the help of neat diagram.
determine the dimension of the shaft and the bush a maximum clearance of 0.075 mm with hole basis system.
Difference between work shop gauges and Inspection gauges.
Determine the tolerance on hole and shaft for a precision running fit.
Design the general type GO and NO-GO gauge for components having 20H7/f8 fit.
Explain about the optical flat working along with neat ketch.
How straight edge can be used to measure the straightness?
Explain the procedure for flatness measurement on a surface plate.
By using optical flat and monochromatic light explain the procedure to determine whether the given surface is flat or curved.
How will you test the flatness and parallelism of micrometer anvil surfaces with optical flat?
what are orders of Geometrical irregularities of the surface texture?
How will you represent it?
What are the inspection methods used for measurement of surface finish?
determine CLA and RMS values of surface roughness.
State the principle of a working of Mechanical ,electrical,electronic and pneumatic comparator.
Name the various types of pitch errors found in screw and state their causes.
Describe any two of them in details.
What are the Types of gears which are commonly used for power transmission?
Describe a gear tooth vernier calliper and explain its use for checking the tooth thickness and depth of tooth.
Write down expressions for the element stiffness matrices and element body force vectors.
Determine the reaction force at the support. 
Evaluate natural frequencies for the stepped bar shown fig.
Evaluate natural frequencies for the stepped bar shown in fig.
Write about parallel computing.
Write about resources sharing in clustures.
What is autonomic computing?
Write about federation.
Write about acceptance testing.
What is digital entity?
Write about service design.
What is data security?
Write about distributed system models and enabling technologies.
Write about technologies for network based system with suitable diagrams.
Write about automated policy based management.
How many times during each of past five years have levels of testeted.
The International Air Transport Association(IATA) is an international industry trade group of airlines write about its functions and regulations .
Write about the risk assessment in the airport support your answer with its compulsory for every airport .
 Write the security regulation types in the airports and aviation field for traveling of passenger in different countries .
Write the functions of ICAO and its certifications.
Write a short notes on:  
 a) Passenger Load factor   b) Unique economic characteristics of air transportation systems.